SEN. BURNS SETS FARM BILL PRIORITIES
  Sen. Conrad Burns unveiled today a series of principles for the 2007 Farm Bill, in conjunction with a Senate Agriculture Committee Farm Bill field hearing in Great Falls. 
  "These principles are just the starting point of our work on the next Farm Bill. Over the coming months, I will be working with Montana producer groups to develop concrete proposals that will benefit our most important industry," said Senator Burns. "These principles are not intended to cover every issue that will come up during the Farm Bill debate, but they are the issues that I believe are the foundation of legislation that is good for Montana." 
  Senator Burns invited the Senate Agriculture Committee to Montana to hear directly from producers on the upcoming reauthorization of farm programs. Last fall, Burns conducted a series of Farm Bill listening sessions to get a sense of the concerns farmers and ranchers have with current farm policy.
  "The overriding issue I hear from producers is that we have got to find a way to get a fair price for the things that we produce, and we have to keep more of those dollars on the farm," said Senator Burns. "That is the key to providing a future in agriculture for the young and beginning producers. We have to look at this Farm Bill as legislation that is primarily for the benefit of the next generation, because right now, there aren't a lot of kids coming back to the farm. That's a trend we need to reverse, and these Farm Bill principles are shaped with that goal in mind. It is also critical we have a strong energy title in the Farm Bill, as Agriculture can and should play a vital role in securing our nation's energy independence through bio-based renewable fuels."
  Senator Burns also noted that international trade issues will play a large role in the direction of the next Farm Bill.
  "There is a lot of debate right now as to whether or not we should write an new Farm Bill or just extend the one we have got until there is a new WTO [World Trade Organization] agreement," said Senator Burns. "If our trade partners are willing to get serious about things like market access and tariff reductions, then a short extension is something to be considered. But right now, we aren't making a lot of progress, and some of the issues that Montana wheat and barley producers are facing just can't wait."
   Contact: James Pendleton, 406/861-2637, james_pendleton@burns.senate.gov.
 
 