NEW MISSION FOR MALMSTROM: SEN. BURNS SECURES COMMITMENT FROM DOD FOR FINAL SURVEY
  Sen. Conrad Burns announced today the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) and Department of Homeland Security (DHS) had committed to him they would conduct a final site survey of the assets of Malmstrom Air Force Base (MAFB) in Great Falls in preparation for the potential addition of a new mission for the strategically important base. 
  Senator Burns, who was taking the Chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, Senator John Warner (R-VA) on a tour of MAFB, said the DoD/DHS team would be in Great Falls next week to conduct the final assessments of the base as they prepare to deploy a new National Strategic Command and Control center.
  "This new mission will enhance and broaden the strategic importance of Malmstrom," said Senator Burns. "During my tenure in the Senate I've worked to expand and improve the capabilities of this important installation, and this decision by the Department of Defense is the fruit of that labor. We brought the Red Horse Squadron in here a few years ago, and have invested millions of dollars in infrastructure improvements to the base. This new Command and Control facility would play an integral part in our National Defense, as well as the continued battle in the war on terror and I will work to ensure this happens for Montana."
  The specific details of the new mission are classified, so personnel impacts are not available. Senator Burns has been working with DoD officials to seek new missions for Malmstrom Air Force Base, with the Pentagon sending an assessment team out to study MAFB in April 2006 on Senator Burns' request. This final visit during the week of August 21 is an important step toward securing the Command and Control center.
  Senator Burns is a senior member of the powerful Senate Appropriations Committee, and the Subcommittees on Defense, and Military Construction, which fund the Department of Defense.
   Contact: James Pendleton, 406/861-2637, james_pendleton@burns.senate.gov.
 
 