MONTANANS DEFEND AIR GUARD MISSION
  With the future of Montana Air National Guard F-16s on the line, a group of Montanans are in Portland today to address the Base Realignment And Closure (BRAC) Commission as they review Department of Defense recommendations to condense or close military operations in the United States.  
   Montana was allowed 30 minutes to speak before the panel. U.S. Senator Max Baucus (D-Mont.), as Montana's Senior Senator, was given the courtesy of deciding who would testify in front of the BRAC Commission. He invited his colleague Senator Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) and the Adjutant General of the Montana National Guard, Major General Randall Mosley to join him as they address the panel, and fight for the future of Montana Air Guard F-16s. 
   "Today we presented a united front to help save our flying mission," Senator Max Baucus said. "We used our combined firepower to make the case that it's in our nation's best interest to keep Montana's Air Guard strong and viable. We can all be proud of our work together on this important day. I thank Senator Burns and Adj. Gen. Mosley and the Great Falls Community for our collaborative work in fighting these cuts." 
   "We're all pulling in the same direction on this," said Senator Conrad Burns. "The Great Falls community is behind us, Max, Denny and I are on the same page, the Governor's office is supportive. We all sing from the same choir book, and the message is 'Keep those birds in Great Falls, and bring us some more'. We shouldn't be talking about sending F-16s to Iowa, we should be sending them John Deere tractors." 
   In addition to Baucus, Burns, and Gen. Mosley and their staff, several Montanans traveled to Portland to show their support for the Montana Air National Guard. Those attending include Randy Gray, Mayor of Great Falls; Jeff Garrard, Field Representative for Congressman Rehberg; Cynthia Schultz, Great Falls Airport Director; Mike Flaherty, member Committee of 80 and Military Affairs; Warren Wenz, Chairman - Committee of 80; John Kramer, Great Falls Development Authority; and General Robert Mathis (USAF, Ret.), former USAF Vice Chief of Staff.
   Contact: Jennifer O'Shea, 202/224-6830.
 
 