SEN. BURNS SECURES MAJOR FUNDING FOR IMPORTANT MONTANA ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R - Mont.) announced today that at least seven important Housing and Urban Development (HUD) projects for Montana have been included in an Appropriations bill that will move through Committee this week.
  "We receive requests from Montanans for important local projects," said Senator Burns. "I am pleased to announce these projects are moving forward and we are working hard to deliver the funding."
  The following projects are advancing toward federal funding in the fiscal year 2007 Treasury, Transportation and Housing and Urban Development (TTHUD) Appropriations bill: 
   BILLINGS:
   * Cobb Field (Billings) - Senator Burns is working with Big Sky EDA to provide federal funds toward the rehabilitation of Cobb Field in Billings. The aging ballpark, home to numerous youth baseball programs as well as the Billings Mustangs, has a bond issue before voters in November. The funding secured by Burns would be used to lower the requested bond amount, and should the bond measure fail, would be directed toward other economic development projects in Billings.
  "This is a great community project, with wide support," said John Brewer, President of the Billings Chamber of Commerce. "We really thank Senator Burns for all the work he's done in getting this Appropriations funding directed to a project that will have such a significant and long-range positive impact in the community."
  BOZEMAN:
   * Gallatin County (Bozeman) - Following the sudden closure this spring of the area's only permanent ice arena, the funding will help the community rapidly mobilize to build a new public skating rink inside the Gallatin County Fairgrounds. This facility will not only rescue popular hockey and figure skating programs for young people, it is part of a revitalization effort underway in the Fairgrounds that draws together citizens from across Gallatin County. The County is expected to receive funding for its hockey facility, which will allow the Gallatin Valley Hockey Club, the Gallatin County Figure Skating Association and the Bozeman Amateur Hockey Association to continue their operations.
  "Senator Burns understands keenly that the best investment we can make as a society is in our young people," said Christopher Gray, president of the Bozeman Amateur Hockey Association. "As we like to say, a young person on the ice is a child off the street. This funding represents a crucial stepping stone in our community campaign to build a permanent new ice rink in the Gallatin County Fairgrounds. The facility will benefit not only 1,200 families and individuals who play ice hockey and who figure skate, but the arena itself will draw business into Bozeman and add value to the fairgrounds. On behalf of the Bozeman Amateur Hockey Association, the figure skating club, and our amateur hockey director John LaFontaine, we offer profound thanks to Senator Burns. It's a project that will pay dividends for generations to come."
  MISSOULA:
   * University of Montana Law School (Missoula) - Prior to Senator Burns securing the funding, beginning in fiscal year 2004, the University of Montana (UM) Law School was in jeopardy of losing its accreditation due to lack of Americans with Disabilities Act compliance, and other maintenance and infrastructure issues. A pre-eminent legal school in the Rocky Mountain West, Senator Burns has worked to provide federal support to bring UM's Law School into the 21st century so it can continue to provide top-notch education for Montana students. The expected federal grant in this year's TTHUD would allow for additional facilities construction and expansion.
  "We receive funding requests from Montanans for important local projects," said Senator Burns. "I am pleased to announce the UM Law School will use this federal funding for needed construction and expansion efforts. We'll continue working hard to deliver the funding."
  "This project is critical to our students' education and our school's continuing accreditation," said Edwin Eck, Dean of the UM Law School.
  GREAT FALLS:
   * Rocky Boy's Reservation (Rocky Boy) - Expected to receive funding for the Rocky Boy's Reservation to better utilize Malmstrom AFB's excess housing. Rocky Boy's Reservation received housing funding, secured by Senator Burns, in 2005.
  "We receive requests from Montanans for important local projects," said Senator Burns. "I am pleased to announce this housing funding for the Rocky Boy's reservation. This project is moving forward and we are working hard to deliver the funding."
  "We wish to thank Senator Burns for his continuing commitment to housing on the Rocky Boy," said Bruce Sunchild, Vice Chair, Rocky Boy's Reservation. "His on-going support means homes for our families and safe, secure neighborhoods for our kids. These funds also mean construction and renovation jobs and training opportunities as well as pride in a nice place to live. This has been a multiyear commitment from Senator Burns and he has never faltered nor failed. Montana can be justifiably proud of a Senator in a position of strength and seniority, who takes care of those most in need."
  BUTTE / DILLON:
   * Butte - Silver Bow County's Naval Reserve Center (Butte) - The building that formerly housed the U.S. Naval Reserve is now occupied by the Butte Amateur Hockey Association. Senator Burns expects to secure funding to help in the rehabilitation of the facility, primarily used for hockey and other community athletic activities.
   * Southwest Montana Family YMCA (Dillon) - Senator Burns has been a long-time supporter of the YMCA in Montana. He believes that children should have a safe place to play and learn, and that investment in our youth pays dividends as they become adults. The Dillon YMCA project is expected to receive funding for needed facility construction.
  "We receive requests from Montanans for important local projects," said Senator Burns. "I am pleased to announce the Butte-Silver Bow County request to rehabilitate the hockey facility is moving forward and we are working hard to deliver the funding."
  "This facility will provide a place where kids are supervised year round, steering children from a young age away from risky behavior, especially evenings and weekends," said Beaverhead County Commissioners Garth Haugland, Chairman, and Michael McGinley and C. Thomas Rice in a letter to Senator Burns expressing support for the Dillon project.
  "The program provides youth with some much needed after school activities," said Martin Maleisch, Mayor of Dillon, in a latter to Senator Burns expressing support for the project.
  "This is a fantastic opportunity for our community to expand this facility," said Roger Pelletier, CEO Southwestern Montana YMCA. "We are currently at 2,300 members and continue to grow. The gym will complete the facility with this funding."
  EUREKA:
   * Town of Eureka (Eureka) - Expected to receive funding for constructing a much-needed justice center. These funds will be used for the construction of a facility that will house the municipal government and various law enforcement agencies and the E-911 dispatch center.
  "After the shooting at the current town hall, it became very apparent that something needed to be done to offer a safe work environment for the Eureka Emergency Responders," said Senator Burns. "Plus, this city has definitely grown out of their current facility and with the community growing at such a rapid rate, this funding will not only assist with current needs, but will be a long term facility. I am pleased to announce the Justice Center in Eureka is moving forward and we are working hard to deliver the funding."
  "The Eureka Community is grateful to Senator Burns for working so hard to secure this funding," said Tracy McIntyre, Economic Development Director, Eureka. "This will assist in providing a safe work environment for our city employees and Emergency Services Personnel."
  "Our building is pretty small, pretty cramped, and pretty outdated," said Mary Duram, Town Clerk, Eureka. "This is probably the best chance that we'll have to get the funding that we'll need."
  Senator Burns is a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Transportation, Treasury, the Judiciary, House and Urban Development or TTHUD, which funds the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD).
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183, matt_mackowiak@burns.senate.gov. 
 
 