SEN. BURNS HAILS PASSAGE OF BUDGET RESOLUTION
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) hailed passage of S. Con. Res. 83, the fiscal year 2007 Senate Budget Resolution, which passed last night in the Senate 51-49, and included important provisions to increase funding for veterans, combat methamphetamine across the country, restore Byrne / JAG funding for law enforcement to fight violent crime, and $7 billion for health and education funding programs.
   During the budget debate, Senator Burns offered an amendment to add $823 million to the VA Health Care System, which was adopted 100-0. The Burns amendment rejected two provisions in the President's budget that would have placed an unnecessary burden on America 's veterans: a doubling of prescription drug co-payments and an annual $250 enrollment fee for certain categories of veterans simply to access the VA health care system. The Burns amendment also included $27 million increase in medical research and prosthetics for veterans who have experienced traumatic amputation or serious injury. 
   Senator Burns, a former Marine, said, "This budget we passed last night sets the spending limits Congress must work within over the next year. This budget is about establishing priorities, living within our means. This isn't money for everything, but money for the right things, at the right time. I was pleased that my amendment to increase health care funding for veterans was approved. Our veterans should not have their co-pays doubled or be asked to pay a $250 enrollment fee, and I'm glad we were able to defeat that idea. We have an obligation to all those who serve to provide them with the funding they need for health care, job training, and any assistance they require.
   There were several other amendments that passed as part of the Budget Resolution which Senator Burns praised:
   * An amendment offered by Senator Arlen Specter (R - Penn.), which Senator Burns strongly supported, also passed, adding $7 billion for health and education. Senator Burns will now urge the Labor / HHS Appropriation Subcommittee to use this funding for rural health, vocational education, Perkins, Trio, GEAR UP, and a number of other programs important to Montanans.
   * The amendment that brought $99 million over five years in the fight against meth was co-sponsored by Senator Burns and will specifically assist law enforcement in the fight against meth through the COPS Meth Hot Spots program.
   * Senator Burns co-sponsored an amendment which restored $900 million for the U.S. Department of Justice for Byrne / JAG funding, which is used for personnel, equipment, and training to ensure more successful apprehension, prosecution, and detention of criminals. The President's budget proposed eliminating the Byrne / JAG funding. Montana receives this funding and uses it for fighting narco-trafficking, including meth.
   Senator Burns said, "On meth, the $99 million in funding that we passed for the Combat Meth Act will be helpful across the country in fighting the meth epidemic we know all too well in Montana."
   On the budget process now moving forward, Senator Burns said, "I look forward to working with members of both parties this year as we review the budget proposals and pass appropriation bills to fund important national priorities."
   Senator Burns is a senior member Senate Appropriations Committee and founder of the Senate's Anti-Meth Caucus with over 30 members.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183, matt_mackowiak@burns.senate.gov.
 
 