DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION BILL HEADS TO SENATE FLOOR
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.), a senior member of the powerful Senate Appropriations Committee announced today over $50 million in construction projects had cleared the first hurdle by passing out of the Senate Armed Services Committee and is now in debate on the Senate floor. 
   Burns, who sits on the appropriations committee which funds these projects, spoke to Armed Services committee members to ensure inclusion of two of the projects they [the committee] initially had not included.
   "The military plays an important role in Montana," said Burns. "These projects provide the high-quality infrastructure that keeps Montana forces at the cutting edge of training capability and better positions our installations for a long and healthy future in Montana protecting our Nation. In addition, improvements like these also serve to additionally insulate our bases from threat of closure during the next round of BRAC [Base Realignment And Closure]. I'm pleased to see the committee get these projects approved, and I'll continue to support them through the authorization and appropriations process."
   Montana Projects included in Defense Authorization are
   MAFB - Corrosion Control Facility - $5,600,000 
   This facility will provide modern corrosion and aging control for maintenance and care of MAFB Minuteman III missiles and other equipment. Burns specifically requested this program be authorized and appropriated.
   MANG - Dillon Readiness Center - $4,786,000
   The Dillon Readiness center will construct a state-of-the-art facility for Montana Guard members serving in Southwest Montana. These funds will be combined with state funds to build the facility in FY05. Burns specifically requested this program be authorized and appropriated.
   MANG - Helena Army Aviation Support Facility - $7,600,000
   This facility will use funds originally intended for the now cancelled U.S. Army Comanche program. The support facility will provide additional resources for the MANG CH-47 Chinook helicopter fleet.
   MANG - Improvements to Havre Readiness Center - $2,398,000
   The Havre Readiness center serves Montana Guard members along the High Line, and is in need of improvement and expansion.
   MAFB - Replace Family Housing Units - $29,910,000
   As MAFB continues to grow, older housing units are in need of renovation and replacement to meet the basic needs of service personnel and their families who live on the base.
   The Defense Authorization Bill will next be voted on by the full Senate then go on to a joint House-Senate conference committee. Once signed into law by President Bush, Senator Burns will work through his appropriations committee position to secure the funding for the individual program authorizations.
   MAFB - Malmstrom Air Force Base, Great Falls
   MANG - Montana Army National Guard
   Contact: J.P. Donovan, 406/252-0550.
 
 