SEN. BURNS LEADS HEARING ON AVIATION SAFETY
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-MT), Chairman of the Senate's Aviation Subcommittee, held a hearing today that focused on the safety of America's commercial aviation system. Burns' hearing included witness testimony specific to the areas of flight incursions, operational errors, and contract maintenance.  
   "Since 2002 we've experienced less than one fatal accident per five million flights," said Burns "It's an unheard of success rate, and one I'd like to commend Administrator Marion Blakey for in her role as leader of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). I'd also like to commend the FAA's safety workforce; theirs is a layered system, and one that couldn't be effective without the careful coordination and attention to detail of air traffic controllers, inspectors, manufacturers, repair stations, pilots and others." 
   The public policy and economic necessity of public trust in flying is essential to maintaining the U.S. and global economy. Aviation is estimated to be a $1.4 trillion business globally. In the U.S. alone more than 700 million people flew in 2004 with the number of passengers expected to reach one billion by 2015. However, increased passenger levels, rapidly growing capacity demand, workforce challenges, aging air traffic control infrastructure, and financial turmoil in the commercial airline industry will prove a challenge to the FAA and its resources over the next decade. 
   "The last three years have been the safest we've ever seen in the history of commercial aviation in the United States," said Burns. "We need to continue to utilize the safety workforce and resources as we move forward, just as we have in the recent past. As in almost any industry, technology will play a key role in modernizing our safety systems. Through improved runway detection systems, on-board avionics and satellite based air traffic systems we expect our skies to become even more efficient and safer." 
   Witnesses at today's hearing included Marion Blakey, Administrator of the FAA, Kenneth Mead, Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Transportation, John Carr, President of the National Air Traffic Controllers Association, Basil Barimo, Vice President of Operations and Safety at the Air Transport Association, Robert Roach Jr., General Vice President of the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, and Christian Klein, Legislative Counsel of the Aeronautical Repair Station Association. 
   Burns' status as Chairman puts him squarely in charge of monitoring the aviation industry, and providing congressional oversight of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), the National Transportation Safety Board, and the Airports Improvement Program.
 
 