SEN. BURNS ANNOUNCES $32,000 TO MISSOULA TAX CLINIC
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) today announced that the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) awarded $32,000 to the Montana Legal Services Low Income Tax Clinic (LITC), based in Missoula. This LITC is a qualifying organization that represents low income taxpayers involved in tax disputes with the IRS. It also provides education on tax rights and responsibilities to taxpayers that are non-English speaking or lacking proficiency in English. 
  The Montana Legal Services LITC will use these funds to provide free legal assistance by helping taxpayers understand their rights and responsibilities as a taxpayer, including negotiations and settlements of tax debt, injured spouse claims, earned income tax credit appeals, audits and examinations, liens and levies, and innocent spouse relief requests. This federal funding will directly help the Missoula-based LITC update their facilities in Missoula and maintain a steady transfer of information to and from the state and federal IRS offices. 
  Senator Burns said, "Our tax code is far too complicated and most Montanans cannot afford expensive professional help at tax time, especially if there is a dispute with the IRS. I am pleased to support federal assistance to give hard-working Montanans the help they need to make sure they are paying their fair share in federal and state taxes."
  Teresa Thompson, a local taxpayer advocate for the state of Montana, said "I believe funding the low income taxpayer clinics and the provision of free or nominal fee tax representation is a significant step toward a more equitable tax system. The IRS is committed to achieving the maximum possible access to representation for low income taxpayers under the terms of this grant program."
  The tax filing process at both the state and federal level is complicated and most taxpayers need assistance in one way or another. LITC facilities, such as Montana Legal Services, are non-profit organizations run completely by volunteers and fully independent of the federal government. LITC facilities provide free or low-cost assistance to taxpayers who otherwise may not be able to afford a tax professional.
  Under the program, the IRS awards matching grants of up to $100,000 a year to organizations operating independent tax clinics. For the 2006 grant cycle, the IRS awarded LITC grants to 150 organizations representing 50 states plus the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. Low Income Taxpayer Clinics receive partial funding from the IRS. This LITC grant program, now in its eighth year, encourages the creation and growth of Low Income Taxpayer Clinics across the nation
  Senator Burns is a senior member of the powerful Senate Appropriations Committee and the TTHUD Appropriations subcommittee which has jurisdiction of the Treasury Department.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183, matt_mackowiak@burns.senate.gov.
 
 