SEN. BURNS WORKS TO PRESERVE VO-TECHNICAL EDUCATION
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) today sent a letter to congressional colleagues to encourage the preservation of funding for the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Program in the upcoming Education Appropriations bill. This program is the single largest federal investment in the nation's high schools and its elimination has been included in the Bush administration's 2006 budget proposal.  
   "It's going to be a tough budget year with certain programs losing funding," said Burns. "But the Perkins Career and Technical Program plays a vital role in addressing Montana's growing workforce needs. Not all students go to four year institutions and Vocational Education programs provide students with life and employment skills to make them highly desirable employees in today's competitive economy. These programs build self-confidence and leadership skills by allowing students to utilize their unique gifts and talents." 
   "I understand the financial concerns that Montana's education system currently faces and that is why Congress must ensure that Montana's Votech programs aren't left in the lurch." 
   Once signed, the "Dear Colleague" letter will be sent to the Senate's Labor, Health and Human Services (HHS) and Education Appropriations Subcommittee. A copy of the letter is attached. 
   April 18, 2005 
   Dear Colleague: 
   I ask you join me in sending the attached letter to Chairman Arlen Specter and Ranking Member Tom Harkin encouraging them to preserve funding for the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Program in the Fiscal Year (FY) 2006 Labor-HHS-Education appropriations bill. This program prepares our nation's students for a wide range of well-paying technical careers at the state and local levels. 
   Vocational education is truly one of the pillars of America's modern workforce. Accordingly, Career and Technical Education courses provide students with life and employment skills to make them highly desirable employees in today's competitive economy. Skills learned in Career and Technical Education courses prepare students to go directly into the workforce or to continue their education with a much higher degree of focus and direction for their career goals. Furthermore, America's vocational programs build self-confidence and leadership skills by allowing students to utilize their unique gifts and talents. 
   The President's Fiscal Year (FY) 2006 Budget proposes the elimination of all dedicated federal funding for vocational education. The budget request does suggest that federal funding for vocational education could still be available through a new high school initiative, the High School Intervention Initiative (HSII). However, given the major emphasis being placed on student assessments, it appears likely that school districts receiving grants through this initiative may choose to fund education initiatives other than vocational education. Therefore, maintaining funding for the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical program at no less than the FY 2005 level of $1.326 billion for the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Program, is essential. 
   I hope you will join me in sending the attached letter in support of the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Program to the Labor, HHS and Education Appropriations Subcommittee leadership. If you have any questions or would like to sign the letter, please call me or have your staff contact Melanie Benning at 4-8501. 
   Sincerely, 
   Conrad Burns 
  United States Senator
   Contact: Jennifer O'Shea, 202/224-6830.
 
 