SEN. BURNS ISSUES STATEMENT ON HIGH GAS PRICES
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) today issued the following statement on today's oil prices and the need for advancing pro-energy independence policies through cutting-edge agricultural advances such as biodiesel and cellulose ethanol: 
  "In Billings this morning I saw gas at $2.42 per gallon and I'm hearing it's nearing $3 along the Hi-Line. Diesel prices are through the roof as well. Crude oil prices passed $70 per barrel today. These prices can result in sticker shock at the pump, but they should be a wake-up call to all of us that we must wean this nation off of our dependence on foreign oil. 
  "Montana has the solution to this problem in the ingenuity and labor of our workforce. We are growing fuel, right here in Montana, and it is time to make agriculture part of the solution to energy independence in this country. It is time for a major, national commitment to the development of biodiesel and cellulose ethanol, in addition to the resources we have already invested in traditional ethanol production. 
  "Energy independence also means economic growth in our rural communities. Montana producers have fought some tough battles over the last decade - drought, budget cuts, farm bill re-writes - but none have been as difficult as the continued decline in commodity prices. A bushel of wheat is going for about the same price it was fifty years ago, and that means more and more of our family farmers are looking for second and third jobs just to make ends meet. We need to find a way to keep more dollars on the farms in Montana. Renewable fuels development is part of the solution. It is good for Montana farmers and ranchers, and it is the right thing to do for all working families who are seeking some relief from high gas prices." 
  Senator Burns, a three-term U.S. Senator from Montana, is a senior member of the powerful Senate Appropriations Committee, as well as a member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183, matt_mackowiak@burns.senate.gov.
 
 