SEN. BURNS INTRODUCES AMENDMENT TO PROTECT SMALL BROADCASTERS
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) announced today that he introduced an amendment last night to protect the interests of small broadcasters from being punished for events outside of their control. The Burns amendment was introduced as an addition to the Department of Defense reauthorization bill, included with Sen. Brownback's (R-KS) amendment to increase fines for indecency.  
   "If every local affiliate that broadcasted the Super Bowl was expected to pay a huge fine for a decision they had no knowledge of, we would see numerous small broadcasters go under and that's just not right," said Burns. "The amendment I included will allow the FCC to look at a specific situation and use their discretion, making sure our small broadcasters in Montana and across the country are not penalized unfairly. Each day it seems the entertainment industry pushes the envelope a little bit further, and I believe these increased fines will do a great deal to make people think twice about the content of their programming." 
   This Brownback indecency amendment raises fines for licensees to help combat indecent or obscene broadcasts on television or on the radio to the sum of $275,000 if a violator is determined by the FCC to have broadcast obscene, indecent, or profane language, with a maximum of $3 million for any single act or failure to act. The Burns amendment protects small business by calling on the Federal Communications Committee (FCC) to consider the size of the viewing or listening audience of the programming and size of the broadcast market in question as well as whether they had anything to do with producing the offensive content in question. 
   Greg MacDonald, President and CEO of Montana Broadcasters Association said: "With his amendment Senator Burns has once again shown his understanding of both the issue and broadcast industry. He has shown leadership in amending this bill to make certain that the innocent are not lumped in with the guilty and that the punishment for violators fits the magnitude of the crime. Once again we are pleased that the voice of reason comes from the heartland and not the beltway." 
   Senator Burns is a senior member of the Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation.
   Contact: Jennifer O'Shea, 202/224-6830.
 
 