SEN. BURNS WORKS TO PROTECT PRODUCERS
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) addressed proposed cuts to Agriculture funding in the Congressional Budget Resolution currently being debated in the Senate. In a colloquy with the Senate Budget Chairman, Sen. Judd Gregg (R-NH), Sen. Burns strongly urged him to hold fast on the $2.8 Billion in program cuts agreed to in the Senate version. The cuts would be spread out over five years. The Administration budget originally had nearly $9 Billion in cuts to Agriculture, and the House Budget Resolution contains $5.3 Billion in cuts. Sen. Burns worked with Chairman Gregg and Agriculture Committee Chairman Saxby Chambliss (R-GA) to get the Senate version reduced to its current level.  
   Chairman Gregg spoke on the Senate floor today regarding these cuts: "Senator Burns has been extremely persuasive in his pursuit to keep these cuts down. I assure the people of Montana he has held their interests first and foremost in his effort to lower the number agricultural cuts in the budget resolution." Senator Chambliss also addressed this issue today, "Senator Burns has had outstanding input into this issue, and with his persuasive argument we have been able to negotiate this number down to something that we think is now fair and reasonable." 
   Senator Burns said "I don't like the idea of our producers having to face more cuts, and the original level of $9 Billion was unacceptable, but I understand the need for fiscal responsibility in order to reduce the national deficit, and I have been assured by Senator Gregg he will hold fast at the current level when the bill goes to conference with the House. Senator Chambliss, who chairs the Agriculture Committee, has indicated he will implement the cuts in a way that minimizes the impact on production agriculture." Burns also pointed out his vote yesterday in favor of opening ANWR will help producers. "Diesel prices are hurting our producers, natural gas prices are affecting fertilizer prices, and creating more domestic production will have a positive impact on these prices and help reduce the operating costs for producers. All federal programs are taking a hit, and I think we'll be able to make sure the impact on production agriculture is minimized."
   Contact: Jennifer O'Shea, 202/224-6830.
 
 