SEN. BURNS AMENDMENT ENSURES MONTANA WILL PARTICIPATE IN NATIONAL INNOVATION INITIATIVES
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R - Mont.) was successful in securing several amendments as part of the final version of S. 2802, the American Innovation and Competitiveness Act of 2006, which was successfully reported out of the Senate Commerce Committee today. 
  Currently, the Experimental Program to Stimulate Competitive Research (EPSCoR) affects 26 states and territories in the United States. Senator Burns' amendment will require the National Science Foundation (NSF) to include these states in its new cyberinfrastructure initiative and ensure adequate broadband access.
  Broadband connections are critical to research institutions in competing for NSF and other federal research funding and supporting innovation in their communities. Many of the EPSCoR states have lower connectivity rates and require greater expenses for broadband installation. The Burns amendment will ensure that the needs of the EPSCoR states are understood and addressed as part of a national plan.
  Senator Burns said, "We have outstanding research facilities in Montana, and I wanted to make sure they have a fair shot at receiving competitive research funding at the federal level. This amendment will make sure Montana universities have greater access to broadband, which will encourage greater innovation, collaboration and education."
  The NSF EPSCoR has been instrumental in advancing Montana's research universities. Here are some examples of their success:
  * According to the recent Carnegie classification, Montana State University (MSU) is in the top group ("Very High Research Activity") of the 94 research universities in the U.S. MSU's research is nationally recognized, attracting research dollars and bringing more funding back to Montana. MSU is also expanding the educational opportunities available to students, educated workforce, and high-tech small businesses so they may benefit from research.
   * Montana is building highly competitive programs in nanomaterials and bio-engineering by hiring new faculty in these disciplines. Researchers in these fields are working with and contributing to existing companies, starting new companies, and increasing local economic development. Successful companies in this category include SpeciGen in Bozeman and BRIQX in Missoula.
   * The "Women in Science" program provides funding to women to encourage them to continue careers in the fields of science and engineering. Montana is developing talent in science and technology to keep Montana's workforce competitive.
  EPSCoR is a federal program that provides basic research and innovation in Montana, along with 25 other states and territories. The participating departments, including the Departments of Labor, Energy, Education, and NASA, award grants to universities for important and innovative research.
  Senator Burns was added as a co-sponsor of the original legislation today, and serves as a senior member of the Senate Commerce Committee.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183, matt_mackowiak@burns.senate.gov.
 
 