SEN. BURNS HAILS MEDICARE PART D ENROLLMENT SUCCESS
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont) spoke at a rally today touting the success of the Medicare Part D prescription drug benefit. Burns was joined by Mike Leavitt, Secretary of Health and Human Services, Dr. Mark McClellan, Administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), and several Members of Congress. Numbers released Tuesday by CMS show that more than 872,000 seniors enrolled in the final week, not including the weekend, before Monday's deadline.
  Over the final weekend there were 57,494 individual enrollments, four to five times the enrollment of any other weekend in 2006. The 1-800-MEDICARE information and enrollment number received more than 640,000 calls on May 15th, the day of the deadline, and www.medicare.gov had over 40,000 users at any given time on the same day. Needless to say, the final push for enrollment was enormous.  
  Senator Burns has been promoting the drug benefit and urging Montana's seniors to enroll since enrollment started in November of 2005. In March of this year, Senator Burns sponsored a Medicare Part D bus tour of Montana to help educate seniors about the program. The tour rolled through the cities of Billings, Bozeman, Helena, Kalispell, Missoula, Great Falls, and Butte. More than 700 seniors attended these events, meeting with CMS counselors, getting their concerns addressed and enrolling in a Part D plan. By any measure, the bus tour was a huge success.
  Senator Burns said, "Montana's seniors are now saving money on their prescription drugs thanks to this program. No longer will our low-income seniors be forced to make the painful choice between paying their rent, or buying food and buying their important medicines. This benefit has improved their quality of life, and will continue to do so as they save more money in the future."
  The deadline for enrollment has now passed. Originally, seniors who chose not to enroll in the voluntary drug program and did not have drug coverage of their own were to be assessed a one percent per month late enrollment penalty if they chose to enroll in November, when open enrollment starts up again. Senator Burns, along with Senator Charles Grassley (R-IA), Chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, and 16 other Senators from both sides of the aisle, introduced S. 2810, the Medicare Late Enrollment Assistance Act, which provides a one-time waiver of the late enrollment fee for seniors who did not sign up for the program and do not have prescription drug coverage. Through the one-time waiver of the late penalty, those seniors will be spared a seven percent increase on their monthly premiums so long as they choose to enroll during the open enrollment period in November of this year.
  "This is a one-time waiver of the late enrollment penalty that all of Montana's seniors who have yet to enroll should use to their advantage," Senator Burns said. "They now have until the end of the year to educate themselves, watch how well the program works, and choose the plan that is best for them. I hope every senior who hasn't enrolled will take this advantage of this opportunity, get the answers they need, and do what is best for themselves when enrollment opens again in November."
   Contact: Derek Hunter, 202/224-6137, Derek_Hunter@Burns.senate.gov.
 
 