SEN. BURNS NETUSA BILL INCLUDED IN TELECOMMUNICATIONS OVERHAUL BILL BY SEN. STEVENS
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont) applauded the decision of Sen. Ted Stevens (R-AK), Chairman of the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee, to include his NetUSA bill as a part of Sen. Stevens' Telecommunications Act of 2006, during a full committee hearing today. A major anchor of this overall telecommunications package is the amending to the Universal Service Fund (USF), which came directly from the NetUSA Act introduced in February by Senator Burns. Amending the USF will enable technological and information delivery improvements to change the daily lives of thousands of Montanans. 
  According to a study by the Coalition to Keep America Connected, without the USF some Montanans would see their annual phone bills increase by as much as $300.
  Senator Burns said, "With my NetUSA bill being included in Senator Stevens' bill, we will keep those savings in place. It will also increase the availability and quality of cellular phone service and high-speed, broadband internet access to underserved, rural areas of Montana and the whole country. These new communication devices will let more Montanans engage in the economy of the 21st century, improving their lives. I've worked my whole career in the Senate to ensure Montanans have access to the latest technologies, and I always will. I appreciate Senator Stevens' decision to include my language in his bill and we will work together to get it passed."
  In recent years, the amount of money paid out by the fund has increased, making it difficult for the fund to keep up with demand. Senator Burns' Internet Universal Service Act (NetUSA) bill broadens the base of contributors, shoring up the USF, while governing more prudently the distribution of the funds. 
  NetUSA's inclusion in Senator Stevens' bill will mean increased broadband internet access to schools and libraries, as well as private homes. This will increase Montanan's access to news, information, and educational materials. Also, Senator Burns is working with Senator Stevens to include expanded provisions to increase telemedicine access throughout Montana and the rest of the country. Telemedicine is essential to rural areas like Montana due to the high number of counties without practicing physicians. 
  Senator Burns said, "The internet is more than a way for people to shop and send emails, it's a tool for small businesses to connect with customers, access to information and news, and an educational resource for Montanans for all ages. It also facilitates telemedicine, a vital service to all Montanans. As the internet evolves and improves, I don't want to see anyone left behind. Montanans deserve the same access to the latest, greatest technology for the internet as anyone in New York City, Chicago, or anywhere else. Where you live shouldn't determine what technology options are available to you."
  Senator Burns is a three term U.S. Senator and Senior Member of the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee.
   Contact: Derek Hunter, 202/224-6137, Derek_Hunter@Burns.senate.gov.
 
 