SEN. BURNS: 'HURRICANES IMPACT ON AGRICULTURAL COMMUNITY CAN'T BE IGNORED'
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) today penned a letter to Senate Appropriations Committee Chairman Thad Cochran (R-Miss.) and Ranking Member Robert C. Byrd (D-W. Va.), requesting their aid in ensuring the impacts of the recent hurricane season on America's farmers and ranchers are not overlooked. Burns, a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee and Subcommittee on Agriculture, has provided the bedrock of support for Montana's agricultural community throughout his tenure as a U.S. Senator.  
   In his letter, Burns outlined the great harm the hurricane season has caused to farmers and ranchers, driving fuel and fertilizer costs sky-high nationwide. "Montana's ranchers have seen a nearly 50 percent increase in the cost of shipping calves, while spikes in both fuel and fertilizer have cost Montana farmers over $55 million this year alone. This scenario is repeated in rural communities throughout the country." He continued, "The energy situation facing farmers and ranchers in Montana, and throughout the country, is truly an emergency. Some type of comprehensive disaster and economic assistance package is needed to help our producers manage this unforeseen set of circumstances." 
   While discussing the letter, Burns said "We can't ignore the ripple effect that hurricanes have had on energy prices and the ag industry nationwide, particularly in Montana. Agriculture generally lacks the ability to pass on the costs, which means family farmers bear the entire burden of increased energy prices. And while this impacts every state in the union, Montana's hit particularly hard because agriculture makes up such a large percentage of our economic well-being. There are overwhelming pressures on the budget right now, but keeping Montana's farmers and ranchers in business is important to the national economy. These fuel and fertilizer price increases were unexpected, and threaten the stability of our rural communities. If our farmers don't plant a crop, that loss of income will be felt throughout the state." 
   A copy of Burns' letter to Senators Cochran and Byrd is attached below. 
   The Honorable Thad Cochran The Honorable Robert C. Byrd 
  Chairman Ranking Member 
  Committee on Appropriations Committee on Appropriations 
  United States Senate United States Senate 
  Washington DC 20510 Washington DC 20510 
   Dear Chairman Cochran and Ranking Member Byrd: 
   As the first session of the 109th Congress draws to a close, I understand you are considering a comprehensive disaster assistance package for agriculture producers. I respectfully request that as you craft that package, you include some form of economic assistance for farmers and ranchers throughout the country who are shouldering the burden of high energy prices caused by those same natural disasters. 
   The hurricanes that battered the Gulf Coast have also sent fuel and fertilizer expenses through the roof nationwide. Montana's ranchers have seen a nearly 50 percent increase in the cost of shipping calves, while spikes in both fuel and fertilizer have cost Montana farmers over $55 million in additional expense in this year alone. Many of my farmers are facing the choice of not putting a crop in the ground this year, or perhaps shutting the farm down for good. This scenario is repeated in rural communities throughout the country. In addition, these folks have little or no market power to pass on their cost of production, so unlike other industries, agriculture bears the full burden of skyrocketing input prices. 
   During these difficult budget times, I know full well the pressures you are under to accomplish much with very little. However, the energy situation facing farmers and ranchers in Montana, and throughout the country, is truly an emergency. Diesel prices are coming down much slower than gasoline prices, and fertilizer prices are projected to stay high for some time. My state, like so many others, depends on agriculture as a major contributor to our economy. Some type of comprehensive disaster and economic assistance package is needed to help our producers manage this unforeseen set of circumstances. 
   I look forward to working with you both to achieve this important goal. 
   Sincerely, 
   Conrad Burns.
 
 