SEN. BURNS SUCCEEDS IN HALTING FARM SERVICE AGENCY OFFICE CLOSURES
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont) today received confirmation from the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) that they will not move forward with their proposed Farm Service Agency (FSA) office closures.  
   The USDA letter came in response to heavy pressure from Burns, including a letter sent earlier this week to Deputy Secretary Chuck Conner of the USDA, expressing his reservations about the planned office consolidations. Since the initial announcement from the USDA, Burns has spoken to the USDA on a daily basis to make clear the importance of halting these closures: "I am glad to see the USDA has finally seen that their proposals needed to be revisited, and I am glad I was able to play a part in putting the breaks on this effort." 
   "While I applaud FSA's underlying goals of modernizing and improving services and program delivery for farmers and ranchers, I have some big concerns--FSA appears to have no plan for dealing with the potential impact of these closures on local communities, and that's a very serious issue." said Burns. "Streamlining government is a worthy goal, but the process must be conducted properly. Local input is essential, as is a thorough assessment of the impacts of consolidation on local communities." 
   Deputy Secretary Conner's response to Burns stated: "Your concern for how any proposal might impact Montana's farmers and ranchers is apparent. It is also clear from our discussions that you recognize the need to improve program delivery. Your constructive efforts that focus on how best to serve the needs of Montana agriculture are appreciated." 
   The firm commitment from the USDA to halt the proposed closings came in a letter from Under Secretary Penn to Chairman of the Senate Agriculture Committee Saxby Chambliss: "We do appreciate the concerns that you and other Members of Congress have raised. We thus are prepared to set aside the 'FSA Tomorrow' approach and timetable but do believe that continued dialogue and comprehensive review are still necessary." 
   "I am glad that USDA was willing to listen to the concerns of Montanans," said Burns. "The office closure announcement came at us suddenly, and the USDA had no background or plan for dealing with the potential closures. I am thrilled they have taken a second look and realized that these proposals were not a good fit at this time. There may be a need for FSA to evaluate how it delivers service, but this particular effort at this time needs to be shelved."
   Contact: Jennifer O'Shea, 202/224-6830.
 
 