SEN. BURNS ANNOUNCES $4 MILLION AWARDED TO MONTANA STATE UNIVERSITY
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) today announced that the research center at Montana State University will be receiving a contract grant for a research project on the measurement and assessment of CO2 levels and their possible harm to the ecosystem. Sen. Burns, through his position as a member of the Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee, requested and secured this money as part of the Fiscal Year 2006 appropriations bill. The grant will go into effect this fall at the university.  
  The project will focus on the development of instrumentation and protocols to accurately measure the amount of CO2 stored at a specific underground site. The site will be monitored for leaks or other deterioration of storage integrity over time. This will verify that the CO2 is not harmful to the ecosystem.
  The research proposal also includes the task of developing new CO2 sensing systems. These sensors will give the earliest notice of harmful emissions, if present, and promote early prevention. The project will be assessing the current reservoir impacts on water systems and help identify any toxins in the reservoir. 
  Tom McCoy, Vice-President for Research at MSU, said. "MSU applauds Senator Burns' efforts in securing support for the Zero Emissions Research and Technology program (ZERT). This support funding will support important research aimed at identifying approaches for sequestering CO2 deep underground; and will lead to increased use of Montana coal as a fuel for clean-coal power plants."
  Senator Burns said, "It is important for research like this to take place, and it's great that it can be done in Montana at one of our Universities. Research projects on the environment help to reduce harmful products that damage not only Montana, but the whole country. MSU is doing wonderful work that will benefit all of Montana for generations to come. I'm proud I was able to secure this important funding."
 
 