MONTANA STATE UNIVERSITY RECEIVES RITA GRANT FOR EDUCATION, RESEARCH AT WESTERN TRANSPORTATION INSTITUTE
  Sen. Conrad Burns announced today that a $1.3 million federal grant has been awarded to Montana State University's Western Transportation Institute to apply research and the latest technologies to improve transportation safety and mobility in rural areas.  
 The funding is being provided by the Department of Transportation's Research and Innovative Technology Administration (RITA). 
   The Western Transportation Institute (WTI) is part of the national University Transportation Centers (UTC) program, which is administered by RITA. RITA is dedicated to coordinating the Department's research and development programs and advancing innovative technology solutions to the challenges facing America's transportation system. Grant recipients are required to provide matching funds. 
   "I'm pleased to see these funds going to Montana State University," said Burns. "MSU already attracts talented researchers and students to the study of tomorrow's transportation system, and this grant will help to engage them even further." 
   WTI conducts research, education and technology transfer that focuses on rural transportation issues such as weather and winter mobility, transportation management and public safety, travel and tourism, and pavement and materials. The Institute also trains engineers and professionals with the skills required for today's modern transportation system. More information about WTI can be found at http://www.coe.montana.edu/wti. 
   More than 75 colleges and universities throughout the United States participate in the UTC program conducting transportation research, education and technology transfer. Last year, UTC colleges and universities graduated over 1,100 students with advanced transportation-related degrees, offered almost 2,000 undergraduate and graduate transportation courses, conducted 300 research projects, and trained 32,000 practicing transportation professionals. 
   More information about the UTC program can be found at http://www.rita.dot.gov.
   Contact: Jennifer O'Shea, 202/224-6830.
 
 