SEN. BURNS FIGHTS FOR MONTANA RADIATION VICTIMS
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) introduced legislation last Friday (December 16) that will amend the Radiation Exposure Compensation Act (RECA) to include Montana and Idaho, the two hardest hit states in the United States, in the eligible regions for RECA downwind compensation. Burns introduced this legislation with Sen. Mike Crapo of Idaho.  
   Although both Senators had previously introduced separate bills to extend RECA benefits to their respective states, this new legislation combines their efforts. "[Friday's] actions by Montana Senator Burns and Idaho Senator Crapo are a significant step toward bringing justice and aid to the Cold War fallout victims in their states," said J. Truman, director of Downwinders, a grassroots foundation that advocates RECA amendments. "By combining their current bills, they are building the unity among western states needed to win expansion of current fallout compensation and seeing that those forgotten downwinders in the most heavily exposed areas downwind of the Nevada Test Site receive the aid and help they should have received long ago." 
   Congress passed RECA in 1990 before it was clear where the radioactive byproducts of nuclear testing had the biggest impacts. "As a cancer survivor myself," said Burns, "I know that no amount of money can heal the wounds suffered by the victims of radiation exposure. Time and time again, I have heard from Montanans who tell me that it's not about the money. The people of Montana aren't coming to their government with their hands out. They are demanding justice. They are demanding acknowledgement of their suffering. They are demanding that we do the right thing." 
   RECA offers payments to civilians who lived in states designated "downwind" from nuclear bomb tests and who contracted specific types of cancer, particularly thyroid cancer, years after their exposure to Iodine-131. In 1997, a study by the National Cancer Institute revealed that Montana is home to 15 counties in America with the highest Iodine-131 exposure, but affected counties in Montana are not currently eligible for compensation through RECA. The National Academy of Sciences recently issued a report detailing the fact that Montana is one of the worst affected states by the nuclear testing. Burns' bill would amend RECA to include any Montanan that has been afflicted with thyroid and other various cancers related to radiation exposure. To receive compensation, the claimant must have lived downwind of atmospheric nuclear tests in the state of Montana for a period of at least two years, during the period beginning on January 21, 1951 and ending on October 31, 1958. In addition, after the period of physical presence, the claimant must have contracted one of the specified diseases. 
   Two years ago, Neal Johnson from Lewistown was diagnosed with thyroid cancer, the most common health affect of radiation exposure from above-ground nuclear testing. Johnson stated, "Montanans unwittingly shouldered a very heavy burden during the 1950s and 1960s when the Nevada nuclear tests contaminated large parts of the Montana countryside with deadly radioactive fallout. Fifty years later we are witnessing the consequences of this catastrophe, with rising cancer rates, particularly thyroid cancer, in Montana. While compensating victims is important, it is even more important that the public be aware of this history, and that Montanans, especially those who were very young and who drank fresh dairy milk during the years of the fallout, monitor their health closely. Thyroid cancer has been directly linked to exposure to fallout. My own thyroid cancer was found almost by chance during a check-up two years ago. I am very grateful to Senator Burns for championing this issue for Montanans." Nationally the rate of thyroid cancer increased 37 percent between 1989 and 2003. In that same timeframe, Montana saw a 127 percent increase. "I urge any Montanan who grew up as I did, drinking fresh local dairy milk in the 1950s and 1960s, to have a thorough thyroid examination, and regular check-ups." 
   For more information on RECA and this legislation, you may contact Conrad Burns' office toll free at 1-800-344-1513.
   Contact: James Pendleton, 406/252-0550.
 
 