SEN. BURNS FIGHTS FOR MONTANA AGRICULTURE
  As the Congress wraps up its session for the year, Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) is battling on a number of fronts to protect Montana agriculture and provide critically needed assistance to producers.  
   During yesterday's debate on the FY06 Defense Appropriations Bill, Burns offered an amendment to address the impact on agriculture producers of unprecedented spikes in fuel and fertilizer prices. Burns, a member of the joint House-Senate conference committee on Defense Appropriations, introduced the language but failed to get it attached to the final conference report. 
   "This fight's not over yet," said Burns. "We may have lost this round, but I'm going to go after it again once the holiday break is finished. Our Montana producers are taking a big hit between the cost of diesel fuel, and the cost of fertilizer which requires natural gas to produce. These costs, which are directly related to the hurricanes this fall, are being absorbed by the farmers and ranchers because they can't pass on in the price of their input costs, and that's hurting their operation." 
   Jon Stoner, President of the Montana Grain Growers Association said "Montana producers thank Senator Burns for working to get emergency assistance to help offset the huge increase in energy costs. These are costs producers cannot pass on and have consumed all profits in grain production. We are encouraged by the support this legislation has received and will continue to work with Montana's Congressional delegation to secure emergency energy assistance when Congress reconvenes in February." 
   In a success for Montana farmers, Burns announced today that the Budget Reconciliation package, which will be brought up this week in the Senate for final passage, does not cut any Montana commodity programs, nor does it threaten funding for food stamps. The bill does include some modifications as to when farmers can elect to receive payments, but Montana farmers will continue to receive their full direct payment. 
   "While I am not happy about the cuts to conservation programs, I am glad that we were able to preserve our commodity programs," Burns said. "With energy prices as high as they are, the reductions would have come at the worst time possible. It is not a complete victory, but the safety net our farmers rely on is still intact."
   Contact: James Pendleton, 406/252-0550.
 
 