SEN. BURNS SECURES MAJOR HEALTH EDUCATION FUNDS FOR MILES COMMUNITY COLLEGE
  Sen. Conrad Burns today announced that, through his position as the only Member of the Montana Senate Delegation who is a Member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, he has secured $500,000 in funding through the Fiscal Year 2007 Labor/HHS Appropriations Bill for Mile Community College to create a health professionals program.  
   This grant will address needs identified by health care employers throughout Eastern Montana and to help provide a qualified health care workforce. Many existing jobs in various health care fields in this region of Montana remain vacant due to the lack of qualified applicants. Miles Community College seeks to initiate the Pathways to Careers in Health Care program. The Pathways to Careers in Health project will offer the general education class requirements of most health care professions education programs in Montana. Additionally, Miles Community College will develop an online Health Care Educator Certificate program to increase the number of health care clinical instructors available to rural/frontier health care facilities in which students will be trained. The grant will be used for medical and laboratory equipment, program assessment, and curriculum development.
   "I am deeply grateful to Senator Burns in obtaining these much needed funds," said Stefani Hicswa, President of Miles Community College. "This project will allow us to continue building upon our highly regarded health care program offerings at the College and will result in many more career and workforce development opportunities for good paying jobs throughout Eastern Montana."
   Senator Burns said, "This is a great opportunity for Montanans as well as great news. The field of health care is making amazing advances, and we need more health care professionals on all levels. This creates career opportunities for Montanans and the end result will be more caregivers with state of the art training. I applaud Miles Community College for their excellent work in educating the next generation of health professionals."
 
 