SEN. BURNS SECURES FUNDING FOR DEACONESS HOSPITAL TO CREATE ELECTRONIC MEDICAL RECORDS SYSTEM
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont) today announced that, through his position as the only Member of the Montana Senate Delegation who is a Member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, he has secured funding through the Fiscal Year 2007 Labor/HHS Appropriations Bill for Bozeman Deaconess Hospital.  
   The funding, secured by Senator Burns, will allow Bozeman Deaconess Hospital to develop and deploy an electronic medical record (EMR) system that will be accessible regionally. The overall technological goal is to ensure that the correct data is available regardless of where the patient enters the system. 
   By establishing this network the overall quality and safety of health care in the impacted communities will greatly improve. The hospital is in the preliminary stages of planning and implementing infrastructure toward a system-wide EMR. Funding will be used to purchase software, technology, and training necessary to implement this system.
   John Nordwick, CEO of Bozeman Deaconess Hospital, said, "I want to thank Senator Burns for his tireless work and help in securing this important funding. This money provides a great boost towards obtaining a community medical record. When implemented, it will ensure that a patient's medical history and information is immediately accessible by health care providers in the region thereby improving timeliness, accuracy, and continuity of care as well as safety of treatment."
   Senator Burns said, "To receive the best care possible no matter where you are, the doctor needs to know your medical history, what drugs you're taking, and any allergies you have. It used to be you had to know all of that information yourself if you had to go see a doctor who was not your regular physician. But the future is coming fast, and doctors will soon be able to know the vital information they need about your medical history with a few key strokes. This will give them access to critical information and save time, and saving time saves lives."
 
 