SEN. BURNS: ENGLISH MUST BE NATIONAL LANGUAGE
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R - Mont.) yesterday co-sponsored an amendment making English the "national" language during the immigration debate on the Senate floor. The amendment passed the Senate 63-34. 
  Senator Burns said, "I have long supported making English the national language of this country. Montana made English the official language in 1995 and is just one of 27 states to have done so. English is the language of this country and if you want to be a citizen, you should have to pass a test in English. Rhetoric aside, the English language and America are inseparable, and this was the right thing to do."
  This amendment will change the citizenship test to ensure immigrants who pass will have demonstrated sufficient understanding of English for usage in everyday life and shown understanding of common values, American history, and the rights and responsibilities of citizenship.
  According to the U.S. Census Bureau, the number of U.S. residents who speak English "not well" or "not at all" grew by 65 percent between the 1990 and 2000 census. Senator Burns believes that "making English the national language of the U.S. sends a strong message that those who wish to become U.S. citizens must make learning English, along with other civic education, a priority."
  Senator Burns also supported an amendment to prevent illegal aliens from receiving Social Security benefits and receiving valid social security numbers. Under current law, individuals who work in the United States illegally and later obtain legal employment status can use illegal work history to qualify for Social Security benefits. Illegal aliens often steal social security numbers to gain employment. Despite Senator Burns' efforts, this amendment was narrowly defeated 50-49.
   "Some of my colleagues in the Senate need to realize that this behavior must not be rewarded," Senator Burns said. "Illegal aliens are not only stealing the social security numbers of American citizens to falsify work documents, they're placing an additional burden on our social services."
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183, matt_mackowiak@burns.senate.gov.
 
 