SEN. BURNS TO SUPPORT JUDICIAL NOMINATIONS
  At a press conference from the U.S. Capitol today, Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) commented on the debate surrounding judicial confirmations in the U.S. Senate. Sen. Burns indicated his support for President Bush's nominees to the federal court system, and chided Democratic detractors for their misleading rhetoric and delaying tactics. Sen. Burns was joined by Sens. Stevens (R-AK), Domenici (R-NM), Grassley (R-IA) and Cochran (R-MS) to comment on this ongoing debate.  
   The facts stand unchallenged," said Burns. "The use of the filibuster to logjam judicial nominations in this Congress and the last is unprecedented. We have supremely qualified candidates that are being denied an opportunity to have an up or down vote because a minority of Senators are caving to the special interest cries from the far left of their party. Up until 2003, if a judicial nominee, regardless of the party in power or the party of the Administration nominating them, made it to the Senate floor, they received an up or down vote. Even recently, with Senator Bob Dole leading the Republican minority, President Clinton's judicial nominees got their up or down vote. Senator Byrd's minority leadership in the Reagan administration, the judicial nominees got their up or down vote. 
   Burns continued, "Senator Mike Mansfield said in 1975, as Senate Majority leader that 'We cannot allow a minority, a small group of members, to grab the Senate by the throat and hold it there.' In this instance of obstructionism by the Democratic minority to, for the first time in history, filibuster judicial nominations, Senator Mansfield's words ring true. The backlog of cases in our federal courts is appalling, and we owe it to those who elected us to get those positions filled so we can not only adhere to Article II, Section 2 of our Constitution, but uphold the Sixth Amendment to the Constitution which guarantees a speedy trial." 
   "I would also propose we bring back the nature of the filibuster to one that actually requires an effort put forth on the part of all Senators. Those who would filibuster should have to hold the floor continually to maintain the debate, and those who would end the filibuster can set up cots in the cloakroom like it used to be. If we as a body are going to delay the people's business, we should at least have the intestinal fortitude to do it right." 
   Montana's delegates have a history of encouraging adherence to the Constitution in terms of promoting the business of the Congress, and keeping the body doing the business of the people. Not only did Senator Mansfield (D-MT) speak out against the abuse of the filibuster in 1975, Senator Thomas J. Walsh (D-MT) was the first Senator to advocate usage of the Constitutional option, in 1917 (55 Congr. Rec. 45, Sen. Walsh citing U.S. Const. Art I Sect.5).
   Contact: Jennifer O'Shea, 202/224-6830.
 
 