SEN. BURNS SUPPORTS 'NATIONAL GOOD NEIGHBOR DAY'
  Today Sen. Conrad Burns (R - Mont.) cosponsored a Senate resolution, along with Sen. Max Baucus (D - Mont.), designating September 24, 2006 as "National Good Neighbor Day," which is expected to pass the Senate late Tuesday. 
  The Senate's declaration of National Good Neighbor Day is the result of the efforts of Becky Mattson of Lakeside, Montana. Her efforts began originally with Senator Mike Mansfield (D - Mont.), whose support lead to a Proclamation by President Richard Nixon. National Good Neighbor Day was also recognized by Presidents Ford and Carter. Senator Burns has supported her efforts in the past, facilitating meetings at the White House, and introducing this resolution in previous years.
  "The goal of this day is to encourage open lines of communication between senior citizens and children and to improve neighborly interactions. Any opportunity for neighbors to help neighbors will help us all," said Senator Burns, a longtime resident of Billings. "On September 24, all Montanans should make a special effort to be a good neighbor, in whatever way possible."
  Mattson promotes "National Good Neighbor Day" through Congressional efforts and personally distributing flyers and activity ideas to organizations and churches throughout Montana.
  Senator Burns said, "Becky is the type of person that makes Montana great. I am pleased to support her efforts to bring the ideals of National Good Neighbor Day to the rest of the country."
  "It's very important to have children know about Good Neighbor Day, because they love it and they want to help others," said Becky Mattson, a resident of Lakeside, Montana and the champion of Good Neighbor Day. "It makes them feel like it's a beautiful thing to get out there and help people. Conrad has been wonderful keeping up the effort on Good Neighbor Day."
  The resolution is expected to pass by unanimous consent on September 19, 2006.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183, matt_mackowiak@burns.senate.gov.
 
 