SEN. BURNS ANNOUNCES EQIP SIGNUP DETAILS FOR WILDFIRE RECOVERY
 On Friday, July 28. Sen. Conrad Burns (R - Mont.) and U.S. Agriculture Under Secretary Mark Rey announced that the Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS) would make $2 million available to assist agricultural producers whose lands are impacted by wildfires in Montana through a special wildfire recovery sign-up under the Environmental Quality Incentives Program (EQIP). Today, Sen. Burns is announcing the further details for landowners seeking additional information. 
  "I've been in constant contact with USDA and NRCS to urge wildfire assistance, and Dave White has been incredibly responsive and helpful. I am happy we've been able to deliver this for our producers," said Senator Burns. "I hope our producers use this opportunity to recoup some of their losses and we'll keep looking for ways to help."
  This initiative will be funded out of the fiscal year 2007 appropriations bill, but signup will begin immediately. NRCS will offer an incentive payment of up to $11 per acre (up to a 2,500 acre cap) for producers to defer grazing, rebuild fences, and restore water supplies damaged by the wildfires. The signup is offered statewide, but only damage caused by documented 2006 wildfires will be eligible and covers only private lands (not federal).
  NRCS has issued a blanket waiver so producers, if they choose, can start rebuilding fences and water supplies and still be eligible for the signup.
  The central component for this signup is producers must agree to defer all grazing on the contracted, burnt acres until October 1, 2007. NRCS selected a one-year deferral period to allow the rangelands time to restore naturally, however this date should allow ranchers some fall grazing next year.
  An application submitted as per the requirements in the signup does not guarantee that a producer will receive an EQIP contract, only that a producer is eligible for a contract.
  For more information, please contact Pam Tierney-Crisafulli or Jennifer Owen in Senator Burns' office at 1 (800) 344-1513 or Dave White, NRCS State Conservationist at (406) 587-6813.
  "Wildfires have impacted thousands of acres of Montana's agricultural lands and the fire season isn't over yet," said Dave White, NRCS state conservationist. "We have issued a blanket waiver so producers can begin rebuilding their infrastructure as soon as it is safe to do so and still remain eligible for this special initiative."
  Senator Burns is a member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183, matt_mackowiak@burns.senate.gov.
 
 