SEN. BURNS CONVINCES BLM TO EXTEND COMMENT PERIOD FOR MISSOURI RIVER BREAKS RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
  Following his November 18 request to Bureau of Land Management (BLM) Director Howard Lemm, Sen. Conrad Burns today announced that a ninety-day extension has been approved on the comment period for the Draft Resource Management Plan and Environmental Impact Statement (RMP/EIS) for the Upper Missouri River Breaks National Monument. The draft plan, which inspects six different alternatives for managing the monument, was released in October and the public comment period was initially set to pass on January 26, 2006. After Burns' input, the comment period will now expire on April 26, 2006.  
   "I just want to be absolutely sure that Montanans have ample opportunity to provide their input before a final management plan is chosen," he said. "There are many different interested parties, each with their own concerns as to the preferred alternative." 
   In the letter requesting the extension, Burns wrote, "The management decisions implemented as a result of the 500-page document have the potential to greatly disrupt the current farming and ranching practices in the area. This extension would give interested parties time to thoroughly study the RMP/EIS and submit in-depth and well-informed comments. In addition, the majority of the currently proposed comment period for the RMP/EIS falls during the Holiday season. This significantly reduces the actual timeframe allowed for review." 
   A complete copy of his letter is attached below: 
   November 18, 2005 
   Mr. Howard Lemm 
  Acting State Director 
  Bureau of Land Management 
  P.O. Box 36800 
  Billings, MT 59107-6800 
   Dear Mr. Lemm: 
   I am contacting you on behalf of many Montanans who will be impacted by the Draft Resource Management Plan and Environmental Impact Statement (RMP/EIS) for the Upper Missouri River Breaks National Monument. 
   I am requesting a ninety-day extension of the comment period from January 26, 2006 to April 26, 2006. The management decisions implemented as a result of the 500-page document have the potential to greatly disrupt the current farming and ranching practices in the area. 
   This extension would give interested parties time to thoroughly study the RMP/EIS and submit in-depth and well-informed comments. In addition, the majority of the currently proposed comment period for the RMP/EIS falls during the Holiday season. This significantly reduces the actual timeframe allowed for review. 
   You may direct your response to my office at: 
   Senator Conrad Burns 
  Attention: Pam Tierney-Crisafulli 
  324 West Towne 
  Glendive, Montana 59330 
  (406) 365-2391 or (406) 365-8836 fax 
   Thank you for your assistance in this matter. Your services are always appreciated. 
   Sincerely, 
   Conrad Burns 
  United States Senator
 
 