SEN. BURNS PRAISES ENERGY INITIATIVES PROPOSED IN STATE OF THE UNION
 Sen. Conrad Burns (R - Mont.) today praised the president's specific energy proposals in his State of the Union address. The president admitted America is "addicted to oil" and announced the Advance Energy Initiative (AEI), which would increase clean-energy research at the Department of Energy 22%. The AEI would be specifically focused on changing how we "power our homes and offices and how we power our automobiles."  
   Senator Burns said, "The Energy bill we passed in the Congress last year doubled tax credit for research and development for alternative fuels. The AEI will go further, funding research in clean coal, solar and wind. Montana stands ready to meet the country's energy needs. More energy investment means more jobs for Montanans. A national goal of cutting our dependence on Middle Eastern oil 75 percent by 2025 will improve our national security and our economic security. And we must innovate and utilize our technological advantage to decrease our use of fossil fuels. While we undertake this critical alternative fuel research, we must increase domestic production where it makes sense." 
   Since 2001, the federal government has invested almost $10 billion to develop alternative energy sources. 
   Senator Burns said, "The development of cellulose ethanol holds tremendous potential to bring jobs to rural Montana. We have a lot of wheat and barley straw sitting on the ground that can serve as the feedstock for ethanol production, while keeping more dollars on the family farm. I know there are companies looking to Montana, ready to invest in our rural economies and bring jobs to areas that are really in need of new opportunities. I believe the President's commitment to cellulose ethanol will help spur that development. Corn producers have been the pioneers in making ethanol a reality, but Montana's growers have an important role to play in expanding ethanol development and securing our nation's energy future." 
   On health care, the president stressed Medical Malpractice reform and expanding Health Savings Accounts to allow customers to save tax free for out-of-pocket health care costs and prescription drugs. One important legislative solution to decrease health care costs is Small Business Health Plans and Senator Burns is an original co-sponsor of S. 1955, the Health Insurance Marketplace Modernization and Affordability Act, which would allow small businesses to pool their resources and provide affordable health insurance to their employees. Senator Burns also understands the Prescription Drug Benefit has some problems, and he encourages anyone to contact his office if they need help, have question s or are having problems. 
   Regarding his general reaction to the State of the Union, Senator Burns said, "It was the best State of the Union the president has given, very powerful. We stressed the need to give law enforcement and our intelligence agencies all the tools we necessary because we 'will not wait to be hit again'. This means re-authorizing the Patriot Act and continuing the Terrorist Surveillance program. Overall, the president discussed our important national priorities, energy, health care, budget restraint, competitiveness, and foreign policy and we'll work in Congress to meet these challenges and solve the problems facing Montanans."
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/224-6830, 202/380-8183.
 
 