MONTANA ASSOCIATION OF COUNTIES ENDORSES SEN. BURNS' METH BILL
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R - Mont.) received praise Monday for sponsoring legislation in the Senate to address the meth epidemic in this country. The Montana Association of Counties (MACo) sent a letter to Sen. Burns "applauding" his Meth Awareness and Prevention Act of 2006. 
   This legislation would create a $25 million competitive grant program for effective education and awareness campaigns aimed at preventing children and adults from trying methamphetamine. The legislation is modeled after the success of the Montana Meth Project, which has used hard-hitting television and radio ads in Montana to combat consumer attitudes about the drug.  
   Senator Burns has been meeting with law enforcement, health care workers, and community leaders across Montana in the past three months to gain input for the meth legislation. Since January, Senator Burns has held meth meetings in Missoula and Great Falls, and co-hosted a national town hall on meth in January in Washington which include five other Senators, the Attorney General, and the Drug Czar. 
   Senator Burns said, "Everywhere I go in Montana I hear directly from county commissioners, police chiefs, emergency room workers, and school principals that meth is the biggest problem they face. This bill will provide immediate funding to state or local entities that will find a private match for funding and demonstrate they will use the funds for prevention campaigns. Our neighborhoods are under assault. Meth is an epidemic, and we need a sense of urgency about this problem." 
   In order to qualifiy for the funding, entities must show a dollar for dollar match between public and private industry, reduced for some high-risk or Native American communities with high meth use. Administrative costs are capped at 1% for the program, which will be run by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) within the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Service Administration (SAMHSA). 
   Senator Burns is founder of the Senate's Anti-Meth caucus in the Senate with over 30 members and a three-term U.S. Senator. 
   February 28, 2006 
   Dear Senator Burns, 
   On behalf of Montana's 56 counties, the Montana Association of Counties (MACo) applauds you for sponsoring the Methamphetamine Awareness and Prevention Act of 2006 (S 2315). 
   As you know, methamphetamine is a highly addictive and dangerous drug that has gripped the State of Montana and the nation. Two recent surveys from the National Association of Counties (NACo) confirmed that methamphetamine abuse has reached epidemic proportions across the nation. Nearly 60 percent of county law enforcement officials rated methamphetamine as the largest drug problem in their county. In Montana, the number was even higher, as 71 percent of county law enforcement officials rated meth as their largest drug problem. In addition, the survey showed that Montana counties have seen a 90 percent increase in meth related arrests starting five years ago. 
   A comprehensive strategy that includes prevention, education, precursor control, law enforcement, child welfare and treatment is needed to combat the scourge of methamphetamine. Increasing education and prevention efforts aimed at today's youth is a proactive step towards stemming this devastating problem. By authorizing $25 million, your legislation would assist state and local governments and non-profits in developing targeted multi-media educational campaigns for at-risk youth. This represents significant leadership and commitment by the federal government in supporting states and local governments in the fight against meth. Additionally, your legislation recognizes the scarcity of resources in many rural areas by reducing the local match to 50 percent. This provision is vital as rural America is struggling greatly with the meth epidemic but often has limited financial resources. 
   Lastly, your legislation would spark multi-media awareness campaigns similar to the successful Montana Meth Project. The Montana Meth Project has been a major catalyst in building awareness of the dangers of methamphetamine in Montana and elsewhere. I am happy to report that Tom Siebel, the Chairman of the Montana Meth Project, will be speaking at NACo's upcoming conference in Washington, DC and will update county commissioners from across the nation about this important initiative. 
   Once again, thank you, and we look forward to working with you to pass the Methamphetamine Awareness and Prevention Act of 2006. 
   Sincerely, 
   Douglas A. Kaercher 
  Hill County Commissioner, President, MACo
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183.
 
 