SEN. BURNS ANNOUNCES GRAZING OF CONSERVATION RESERVE PROGRAM IN AREAS IMPACTED BY WILDFIRE
  Sen. Conrad Burns announced today the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) had approved a request by the Montana Farm Service Agency (FSA) to allow grazing of land enrolled in the Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) for livestock producers affected by wildfires. This special access is available for affected livestock producers in Beaverhead, Garfield, Stillwater, Sweet Grass and Yellowstone counties.  
  "We lost a lot of grazing land in the Derby fire alone," said Senator Burns. "Producers have really taken a hit during this wildfire season, and I'm pleased to see the USDA approve this request by our local FSA. I've been working with them to ensure quick attention by the Ag Department, and I'm going to continue to keep fighting for Emergency Conservation dollars for our producers."
  According to Montana FSA State Executive Director Randy Johnson, this special grazing authorization may be used by eligible livestock producers in the 5 counties named above to allow livestock to be temporarily moved onto CRP land within those 5 counties or any bordering county. Bordering counties are: Big Horn, Carbon, Custer, Deer Lodge, Golden Valley, Granite, Madison, McCone, Meagher, Musselshell, Park, Petroleum, Phillips, Prairie, Ravalli, Rosebud, Silver Bow, Treasure, Valley, and Wheatland.
  CRP participants in the bordering counties listed above are only allowed to permit livestock producers affected by the wildfires in Beaverhead, Garfield, Stillwater, Sweet Grass and Yellowstone counties to graze their CRP acres without a payment reduction.
  Grazing is limited to not more than 60 days. There will not be a reduction in the CRP participant's annual rental payment and the grazing will not count against their managed haying/grazing rotation.
  Livestock producers must locate a CRP participant who is willing to offer grazing of their CRP acres. CRP participants who wish to open their CRP for grazing to livestock producers affected by the wildfires should contact their local FSA County Office. 
  A list of CRP participants willing to allow livestock producers grazing privileges will be posted on the Montana FSA homepage at http://www.fsa.usda.gov/mt/crpfireparticipants.htm.
  FSA Director Johnson encourages CRP participants in the 5 counties or counties bordering these 5 counties to contact their local County FSA Office if they are willing to offer grazing to livestock producers affected by the wildfires. 
  Senator Burns is a senior member of the Senate Agriculture Appropriations Subcommittee.
   Contact: James Pendleton, 406/861-2637, james_pendleton@burns.senate.gov.
 
 