SEN. BURNS PART OF NATIONAL ANTI-METH TOWNHALL JAN. 23
  To address the increasing dangers methamphetamines exact on our nation's communities and families, Sen. Conrad Burns will participate in a National Townhall on Methamphetamine Awareness and Prevention in Washington, DC on Monday, January 23, 2006. The townhall will be shown live from 11am -2pm in Bozeman at the Burns Technology Center, EPS Building, MSU-Bozeman Campus, on the corner of Grant and 7th Streets.  
   Senator Burns said, "We need to provide law enforcement with the resources they need to stop the spread of meth across Big Sky country, but it doesn't end there--treatment and prevention are key to curbing meth use in Montana. I am especially grateful to Tom Siebel for his work with the Montana Meth Project, which at the end of 2005, was the largest advertiser in the state. Thanks are also due to Roger Curtiss, a treatment counselor and advocate for meth recovery, who has in the past served as the President of the National Association of Addiction Professionals, and whose experience on the ground in Montana dealing with meth is truly an asset to us." 
   Also participating are Senators Norm Coleman (R-MN), Max Baucus (D-MT), and Mark Pryor (D-AR). Senator Burns is the founder of the Senate Anti-Meth Caucus, which he began in October 2005 with over 30 members. 
   At the townhall meeting, Attorney General Alberto Gonzalez and Drug Czar John Walters of the Office of National Drug Control Policy will make opening remarks. During the three rounds of the townhall senators will be joined by state and national panelists, including drug enforcement officials, rehabilitative services personnel, and former users of meth who have experienced the devastating and tragic effects of this synthetically-made drug. The event has been assembled as a national forum in which to understand the use and widespread impact of the drug, as well as seek ways to inform the public, deter use, and examine possible legislative initiatives to further combat the meth epidemic. 
   In addition to the live broadcast in Bozeman, the event will be webcast live via Senator Burns' official website at http://burns.senate.gov. During the event, the senators and panelists will be able to receive audience questions via e-mail, which they will answer during the Question and Answer period of each panel. 
   Questions can be emailed in advance of the townhall, as well as throughout the live broadcast, and should be sent to methtownhall@coleman.senate.gov. Please include your name, hometown, state, and question. 
   PANEL ONE 
   Nora Volkow, M.D., Director of the National Institute on Drug Abuse 
   Carol Falkowski, Hazelden, Director of Research Communications 
   Roger Curtiss, past president of NAADAC (from Great Falls, Montana) 
   Ashley Smith, Atlanta Court Hostage and Author 
   PANEL TWO 
   James F.Hanko, President & CEO, North Country Health Services 
   James C. Backstrom, Dakota County Attorney 
   Bill Hansell, President of National Association of Counties, Oregon 
   Loni Perrin 
   PANEL THREE 
   Tony Loya, Southwest Border HIDTA 
   Rich Scherber, MN Teen Challenge, Executive Director 
   John McVay, State Substance Abuse Director, Nebraska 
   Tom Siebel, Montana Meth Project 
   Kelly Sayers 
   Joshua, 16 years old 
   SATELLITE COORDINATES 
   Galaxy 3, C-BAN 6, Vertical Downlink 3820, 98.5 Degrees West
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/224-6830, 202/380-8183.
 
 