SENS. BURNS, BAUCUS TO TALK BRAC PLANS WITH TOP NATIONAL GUARD OFFICIAL
  Montana Sens. Max Baucus (D-Mont.) and Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) will meet with the National Guard's top official to discuss a plan that Montana officials have forwarded to the Base Realignment and Closure Commission that could keep a flying mission in Great Falls.  
   Montana Air National Guard leaders were given the opportunity to draft an alternate proposal to that of the Pentagon, which is to move MANG's F-16 fighter planes to airbases in Alabama and Iowa, the senators said. On Thursday, Baucus and Burns will meet with Lieutenant General Steven Blum, the Director of the National Guard, to promote the alternative plans that would help keep a flying mission in Montana. 
   As the state's senior U.S. Senator, Baucus was asked to represent Montana before the BRAC Commission in Portland, Ore., on June 17. Baucus invited Senator Conrad Burns and Adjutant Gen. Randall Mosley, the head of Montana's National Guard units, to help make Montana's case before top BRAC officials. 
   As a result, on June 28, Baucus, Burns, and MANG officials forwarded a new plan to the BRAC commission that would move the F-16 flying mission instead to Malmstrom Air Force Base, also based in Great Falls. In addition, the Montana leaders pitched the Electric City as a new home to a flying mission. 
   "We're seizing an opportunity, doing all we can to keep a flying mission in Montana," Baucus said. "We've taken our case to Portland, met with top military officials in Washington - people are hearing what we have to say. And we're going to keep working together to protect MANG and boost our military assets in Montana." 
   "In a unified voice, Max and I are letting the Pentagon know that they won't get our planes out of Montana without a fight," said Burns. "We will continue our efforts, as a team, until the job's done and we're both satisfied that our Great Falls military installations are safe. We'll also continue to explore every avenue to bring new military missions to Montana."
 
 