SEN. BURNS DELIVERS RAIL VICTORY FOR SHIPPERS
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R - Mont.) made important progress in bringing rail relief to Montana today when he successfully included an amendment to the fiscal year 2007 Transportation Appropriations bill that places significant pressure on the Surface Transportation Board (STB) to address obstacles to competition in the rail industry. 
   "Today, we have delivered a victory for shippers," said Senator Burns. "One small step at a time, our efforts are making Congress see that there are some serious issues in the rail industry that need to be addressed. The railroads are an incredibly powerful lobby, but I am going to keep pushing."
   The Burns amendment directs the STB to publish guidelines for shippers seeking to bring small rate cases to the Board. It also requires the STB to reexamine its decision in the so-called "bottleneck" decision, which allows railroads to insulate themselves from competition by refusing to give shippers rates when there is competition over a portion of the route. The amendment was co-sponsored by Senators Larry Craig (R-ID) and Herb Kohl (D-WI).
   Senator Burns continued, "Getting a process for small rate cases is especially important for Montana, because it gives some folks the option of bringing a case to the STB. Shippers need a place where they can be heard, but if you don't have millions of dollars to invent a hypothetical railroad, then the STB has been closed off. Once we have a real mechanism in place for small rate cases, we will have another way for shippers to get some relief from these monopolistic practices. The Board has been promising for nearly a decade to get a workable system for small rate cases out there, but little progress has been made. My amendment will get those procedures in place, and that's significant for a lot of shippers."
   Senator Burns is the leader of S. 919, the Rail Competition Act, which will restrict the ability of the Class I railroads to limit competition through anti-competitive practices and reform the Surface Transportation Board to make it a viable forum for dispute resolution. On June 21, the Senate Commerce Committee held a hearing on the legislation. In addition, the Senate Energy and Natural Resources has conducted hearings into rail delivery problems, as has the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). The provisions included in the Transportation Bill by Senator Burns are based on S. 919. 
   Terry Whiteside, a Billings-based Chairman of the Alliance for Rail Competition (ARC), said, "All ARC members thank Senator Burns today. The Burns amendment represents real progress in the effort to bring positive change and balance to the freight rail marketplace and this progress would not have been possible even a short time ago. Senator Conrad Burns has been a stalwart supporter of fairness for shippers by seeking positive solutions. At times when others have fallen by the wayside, burdened by the fatigue of this difficult issue, Senator Burns has forged ahead with dogged determination."
   Senator Burns is a senior member of the Senate TTHUD Appropriations Subcommittee and the Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee, which has jurisdiction over S. 919.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183, matt_mackowiak@burns.senate.gov.
 
 