SEN. BURNS SUPPORTS AGRICULTURE APPROPRIATIONS BILL
  Today Sen. Conrad Burns (R - Mont.) supported the fiscal year 2007 Agriculture Appropriations bill, which passed unanimously in a markup in the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture. The bill funds the U.S. Department of Agriculture and related agencies, including Rural Development, conservation programs, domestic food programs, foreign assistance programs, and the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Additionally, the bill specifically provides funding for broadband and delivers a federal commitment to fuel alternatives. 
  "This appropriations bill underscores what we should be about in rural America, especially in production agriculture," said Senator Burns. 
  The bill includes $50.750 million for the Distance Learning, Telemedicine and Broadband program for grants and loan subsidy costs which supports a $500 million loan level. 
  "The rural broadband part of this bill holds a great future for our rural towns and cities. It will provide important grant opportunities for Montana to continue improving distance learning, telemedicine and broadband infrastructure. Broadband puts a lot of people to work in rural areas and opens up a lot of possibilities for us."
  Senator Burns also noted the important role of renewable fuels development and praised the inclusion of funding for a variety of research and development initiatives. "It underscores the commitment of renewable fuels, which I believe holds a great promise for agriculture, as America works to end its dependence on foreign oil," said Senator Burns. "We can grow our way out of this energy dependence, as long as the resources and the leadership are in place to allow that innovation to happen."
  In addition, the bill includes at least 14 important Montana projects, included at the request of Senator Burns. 
  "We look forward to supporting this legislation in the full Appropriations committee markup on Thursday so that we can go to the Senate floor and fight for these projects for Montana," said Senator Burns. "We've passed another hurdle, but our job is not done. I hope Senator Baucus will join me in supporting this bill and my projects when they reach the floor of the full Senate, since he doesn't sit on this particular committee."
  Once passed by the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture and related agencies, the full Appropriations Committee is expected to approve the bill. Upon that time, it will go to the full Senate for consideration. Once passed it would then go to a joint House-Senate conference committee to resolve differences in the two versions, the reconciled versions then going back to the respective chambers for final passage, then on to the President for his signature.
  Senator Burns is senior member of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183, matt_mackowiak@burns.senate.gov.
 
 