SEN. BURNS MEETS WITH JAPANESE AMBASSADOR TO PUSH FOR AN END TO BEEF EMBARGO
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) met with Japanese Ambassador Ryozo Kato today regarding the 22-month Japanese embargo on U.S beef. On October 4, Japan's Food Safety Commission concluded that risk of bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE) from U.S. beef and beef products under 20 months of age is "very low." However, Japan has given no indication of when exports might resume. Burns' comments regarding this meeting will be made available today via satellite feed at 1:45pm MT.  
   "We had a very positive meeting today with Ambassador Kato. The Ambassador is very optimistic, and he indicated that we could hear something concrete as soon as the end of this month," said Burns. "I stressed to Ambassador Kato that the Senate is very seriously considering sanctions if this ban continues. This process has gone on long enough. Montana's cattle producers produce the best beef in the world, and we are fed up with these delays. 
   "I am grateful to the Ambassador for his dedication and commitment to this important issue," Burns continued. "Our trade relationship with Japan is very important, but this embargo has got to end. I am not a big fan of sanctions, but if some concrete progress is not demonstrated, then we in Congress will have no choice but to take action on behalf of our producers. The Ambassador indicated to me that he is aware of the growing frustration, and assured me that Japan is taking this issue very seriously." 
   Steve Pilcher, Executive Vice President of the Montana Stockgrowers Association, participated in today's meeting. Pilcher shared with Kato the extreme frustration that Montana producers are feeling: "Producers in Montana are very frustrated with these continued delays, and I appreciated the opportunity to personally convey that mood to the Ambassador," said Pilcher. "I thank Senator Burns for his continued effort on this issue. He has been a champion for us, and I was happy to join him in urging Japan to get serious about resuming trade." 
   Japan closed its borders to U.S. beef exports in 2003, following the discovery of BSE in a Canadian-born cow in Washington State. Japan was the largest export market for U.S. beef prior to the embargo, at over $1.7 billion annually. The U.S. cattle industry estimates that it loses $60 million per week due to the border closure. 
   Burns' comments will be made available today via satellite feed at 1:45pm MT, 3:45pm EST on: 
   Galaxy 3 
  Transponder 7-H 
  Downlink 3840 
   His comments will also be available on the web at: www.burns.senate.gov, and via voicemail at 1-800-545-1267, box 333.
   Contact: Jennifer O'Shea, 202/224-6830.
 
 