SEN. BURNS FIGHTS FOR AMTRAK FUNDING
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) spoke at a Senate Surface Transportation and Merchant Marine Subcommittee hearing today regarding the future of Amtrak. Amtrak runs along Montana's Hi-Line and the northwest part of the state. Sen. Burns spoke about the need for continued Amtrak funding, but he expressed his concerns about putting this funding burden on the states. Sen. Burns' comments from the hearing can be found on the web at: http://src.senate.gov/burns/radio/. 
   "In Montana we have a lot of ground to cover-from the NW corner to the SE corner is a further distance than from Chicago to Washington, DC-and Amtrak is a critical portion of our transportation system," said Burns. "This is a service the American people want-not only the passenger rail, but for cargo as well, and it's going to take some funding to keep it up, but we need to secure that funding." 
   "Every year we find ourselves battling this issue, and every year I am on the front lines fighting for Amtrak because I understand how important it is," said Burns. "Right now there are several proposals out there, and today's hearing was our first opportunity to look at these options and ask questions of the folks in the heart of it all. We need to determine the best way to tackle reauthorization, and I have been working closely with Chairman Lott to do just that, and I plan to continue my efforts to sustain this 'lifeline of the Hi-Line.'" 
   The Empire Builder in Montana was used by over 129,000 people last year, from 122,053 the previous year. Since 2002, Congress has provided about $3.4 billion in conditional loans and emergency appropriations for Amtrak. 
   Witnesses will include Jeffrey L. Rosen, General Counsel and Secretary's Representative to the Amtrak Board; Kenneth Mead, Inspector General, U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT); David M. Laney, Chairman of the Board, Amtrak, and David L. Gunn, President and CEO, Amtrak. 
   Burns is a senior member of the Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee, which oversees transportation and interstate commerce issues, and a senior member of the powerful Appropriations Committee, and the Subcommittee on Transportation, which funds Amtrak.
   Contact: Jennifer O'Shea, 202/224-6830.
 
 