SEN. BURNS, DEPUTY LABOR SECRETARY PRESENT $15 MILLION WIRED CHECK TO MONTANA
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R - Mont.) and Deputy Labor Secretary Steven Law today presented a $15 million check from the Workforce Innovation in Regional Economic Development (WIRED) Initiative to Montana in a press conference held at the Helena Regional Airport. Montana is one of 13 recipients of federal funding through the WIRED program, out of 96 applications.  
   The WIRED Initiative focuses on labor market areas affected by global trade, natural disasters, or reliant on a single industry and provides them federal funding for needed economic development. In Montana the funding will be used to support innovative approaches to education and workforce development beyond traditional strategies to prepare workers to compete and succeed locally and globally. Specifically, it will foster the creation of innovative biolubricants and bioproduct manufacturing embryonic clusters in central and eastern Montana, bringing well-paying research jobs to Montana as the U.S. advances technologically to use less oil for energy. 
   Senator Burns said, "Montana has a 96.3% employment rate, a full point lower than the national average, and I'll continue to make sure federal policy aims to increase economic growth in Montana and fight for federal funding to bring well-paying jobs." 
   On Monday in Billings, Senator Burns met with local agriculture leaders to discuss cellulose ethanol and biodiesel research and the future of alternative fuels in Montana. Allan Johnson, U.S. Agriculture Deputy Undersecretary for Rural Development, participated by phone and detailed the funding programs available through the U.S. Department of Agriculture, initially created by the 2002 Farm Bill. The two companies most specifically benefiting from the WIRED funding are Sustainable Systems at Culbertson, formerly a Missoula renewable fuels company which purchased the oilseed plant, and the Peaks & Prairies in Malta. 
   On Monday in Billings, Senator Burns met with local agriculture leaders to discuss celluose ethanol and biodiesel research and the future of alternative fuels in Montana. Allen Johnson, Deputy Undersecretary of the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), Rural Development (RD) participated by phone and detailed the funding programs available through USDA, initially created by the 2002 Farm Bill. The two companies most specifically benefiting from the WIRED funding are Sustainable Systems at Culbertson, formerly a Missoula renewable fuels company which purchased the oilseed plant, and Peaks & Prairies in Malta. 
   Senator Burns said, "This funding will bring immediate benefit to Montana and help us continue to lead the way in alternative fuel research. We need to decrease our dependence on foreign oil and Montana will remain a leader in that effort." 
   Also present at the event were Governor Brian Schweitzer, U.S. Senator Max Baucus (D-Mont.), Helena Regional Airport Manager Ron Mercer, and Montana Chamber of Commerce President and CEO Webb Brown. 
   Senator Burns is a senior member of the Appropriations, Energy and Commerce committees and three-term U.S. Senator.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183.
 
 