SEN. BURNS DEMANDS RELIEF FOR CAPTIVE SHIPPERS
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R - Mont.) called for immediate action from federal regulators to address the mounting concerns of rail customers, especially those shippers served by only one railroad, at a Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Subcommittee hearing today. The hearing highlighted the growing concern that the lack of rail competition in many markets and the reluctance of the Surface Transportation Board to take action against abuses of monopoly power could have a detrimental impact on economic growth, job creation, and the pocketbooks of consumers. The hearing also demonstrated the widespread support for S. 919, the Railroad Competition Act of 2006, introduced by Sen. Burns.
  "I am not interested in re-regulating the railroad, but I am interested in captive markets," said Senator Burns. "We were not sent to Congress to stand idly by and oversee a monopoly." 
  Senator Burns requested the hearing to push for rail reform that expands competition for rates and service, specifically in captive markets like Montana. Shippers in Montana are held captive to just one Class I railroad, the Burlington Northern-Santa Fe Railroad. 
  "One of agriculture's top priorities is to find solutions to the problems caused by massive concentration of the railroad industry and specifically finding relief for our members who are captive shippers," said Dale Schuler, president of the National Association of Wheat Growers President and a producer from Carter. "Because of captivity, the cost of transporting grain can represent as much as one-third of the overall price a producer receives for their grain. This cost comes directly from a producer's bottom line. Agricultural producers believe that both railroads and shippers would be better off with more competition in the marketplace, and many of them support Senate bill 919, which calls for increasing competition without increasing regulation."
  The hearing included a preliminary report by JayEtta Hecker, Director of the Physical Infrastructure Team at the General Accounting Office (GAO), which is conducting an investigation on freight rail rates, competition, and capacity issues. The GAO is expecting to complete their full report by September. Her preliminary report showed that "shippers that are captive are paying more" than their fair share and that the "rate relief process is largely inaccessible to most shippers."
  Surface Transportation Board (STB) Chairman W. Douglas Buttrey testified about new initiatives undertaken by the board since he assumed the chairmanship January 5, however he did not detail substantive changes to small rate cases and suggested an investigation in to ways to improve procedures could be complete by this summer. Chairman Buttrey admitted that "capacity is constrained in some places" and the STB favors "private sector solutions" rather than litigation. 
  Senator Burns responded to Chairman Buttrey's testimony by saying, "There's no excuse that this (captive shipper problem) has not been handled yet."
  Since the bill's introduction, a wide range of industries, small businesses, and members of Congress have joined Senator Burns' fight for reform to a rail system of captive markets. The legislation would address anticompetitive practices in the rail industry that restrict competition, as well as reform the Surface Transportation Board to provide a workable forum for dispute resolution. 
  Additional witnesses included former Congressman Glenn English, Chief Executive Officer of the National Rural Electric Cooperative, John McIntosh, President, Chlor Alkali Products, Olin Corporation, and John Ficker, President of The National Industrial Transportation League. Presenting the side of the railroads was Edward Hamberger, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Association of American Railroads.
  "The big railroads have failed to come to the table and so we're going to forge on with legislation," said Senator Burns.
  Senator Burns is a senior member of the Senate Commerce Committee, which has jurisdiction over S. 919, the STB, and rail issues.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183, matt_mackowiak@burns.senate.gov.
 
 