AMERICAN LEGION ENDORSES 'HISTORIC' SEN. BURNS VET ACT TO PROVIDE EXPANDED GI BILL JOB BENEFITS
  The American Legion, the largest Veterans Organization in the world with over 2.7 million members, expressed their "full support" of S. 2416, the Veterans Employment and Training Act (VET) of 2006, introduced by Sen. Conrad Burns (R - Mont.) on Wednesday, March 15 in Washington, D.C. 
  In a letter to Senator Burns' office late Monday, Joseph C. Sharpe, Jr., Deputy Director of the American Legion's National Economic Commission, called Senator Burns' legislation "historic" and said the American Legion "concur(s) with enhancing the GI Bill educational benefits (to) expand the scope of programs for which accelerated payments of educational assistance may be used."
  The VET Act will expand the programs of education eligible for accelerated benefits under the G.I. Bill. Currently, only veterans seeking jobs in "high tech" fields are eligible to receive accelerated benefits, which can cover up to 60% of the costs in these education programs. This bill will expand eligibility to include fields determined by the U.S. Department of Labor as critical to filling the jobs of the 21st Century, including financial services, homeland security, transportation, health care, and other sectors.
  Senator Burns introduced this legislation after meeting with veterans and learning the veteran unemployment rate for ages 20-24 is a staggering 15%, nearly double that of non-veterans in the same age group.
  Senator Burns said, "As a member of the American Legion, I know how effective they are as an organization and I am thrilled to have their support. We will work closely with them as we push to have this legislation passed and signed in to law. The current unemployment rate among veterans, especially younger veterans, is entirely unacceptable and this legislation addresses that problem in a proactive way. The VET act will bring veterans to the emerging career fields to fill the jobs of the 21st Century. When they come home, they need to know this country will help them transition back in to society and that starts with employment."
  The bill is co-sponsored by Senator Mark Pryor (D - Arkansas) and has been referred to the Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee. The Veterans' Affairs Committee Chairman, Senator Larry Craig (R - Idaho) committed to Senator Burns that his bill will be given a committee hearing.
  Senator Burns is a former Marine, senior member of the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Subcommittee and a three-term U.S. Senator from Montana.
 
 