SEN. BURNS ANNOUNCES $145,000 GRANT FOR STATE'S CRIME VICTIMS FUND
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R - Mont.) today announced a federal grant for the Fiscal Year 2006 Victims of Crime Act (VOCA) compensation fund. The Montana Department of Justice will receive $145,000 to enhance the state's payments to eligible crime victims. For those that qualify, as a result of this federal funding, the state will help cover additional medical bills directly resulting from the crime. 
  Kelly Rosenleaf, Executive Director of Child Care Resources in Missoula, said, "VOCA funding has been very crucial in the mix of funding that supports domestic violence crisis lines, emergency shelters, transitional housing and supportive services that are necessary to help someone leave an abusive relationship. VOCA funding supports several domestic violence programs throughout the state."
  Leslie McClintock, Senior Grants Administrator, Office of Planning and Grants, Missoula County, said, "On behalf of Missoula's safety net services for victims of crime, including the Office of Planning and Grants, Crime Victim Advocate Program, the Missoula YWCA, and Student Assault Resource Center, we would like to thank Senator Burns for assisting with providing $145,000 additional federal dollars for the Crime Victim Compensation Fund. Since 1984, in Missoula County, VOCA has provided absolute core funding for the safety net services for victims of crime, whether that be after sexual assault, during domestic violence, child abuse, assault, or for the survivors of a homicide victim. VOCA has provided shelter services, crisis response, crisis hotlines, services for children, and absolutely essential crime victim advocacy services for victims in the criminal justice system. The Crime Victims Compensation Fund, additionally, provides funding over and above that. Crime victims want what we all want, to get their lives back to as close to what they were as possible. Often it takes services, such as psycho-therapy or physical therapy to do that. It is one way that we as a people can respond to those who have been victimized by violent crime and we appreciate what Senator Burns has done." McClintock is also the Supervisor of the Crime Victim Advocate Program.
  Funding to support this program will help many of Montana's crime victims. Victims eligible for this funding include people who can not afford the necessary health care to recover from injuries suffered in personal crime. Insurance companies will still retain their inherent responsibilities, but for those in need, the state VOCA fund will help compensate them. 
  Senator Burns said today, "I think it's a shame that children who are abused, or victims of violent crime are not getting the attention they need. None of these people deserve what has happened to them and it's our responsibility to help get them back on their feet. This additional funding will help Montana victims of violent crime."
  Senator Burns is senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee and a three-term U.S. Senator from Montana.
 
 