SEN. BURNS FILES KEY UAV, METH AMENDMENTS TO IMMIGRATION BILL
  Today Sen. Conrad Burns (R - Mont.) filed two critical amendments to H.R. 6061, the Secure Fence Act, which the Senate is currently considering. The Burns amendments will require the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to conduct a pilot program for unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) along the northern border and require DHS and the Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA) to report to Congress on the flow of methamphetamine (meth) across the northern and southern border, with particular attention paid to Indian reservations. 
  "Montanans are concerned about the northern border, and to provide the necessary level of security we need to employ cutting-edge technology," said Senator Burns. "Testing UAVs for border surveillance is one way we can further expand our capabilities along the northern border."
  Senator Burns' amendment would establish this pilot program at existing Northern Border Air Wing sites. Additionally, Senator Burns' amendment would allow the Federal Aviation Administration, which controls domestic airspace, to work with the DHS on a safe and effective UAV program along the northern border.
  As part of the DHS northern border strategy, five Northern Border Air Wing sites have been built throughout the country in Washington state, Michigan, North Dakota, New York, and Montana. Senator Burns was able to secure $18.3 million for fiscal year 2006 for the Montana branch, located in Great Falls. Senator Burns will be attending the dedication ceremony October 16 and will bring senior DHS officials with him to see the facility firsthand.
  "Using technology, we can build a layered defense on the northern border and close the gaps that still exist," said Senator Burns.
  The Burns amendment on meth will require DHS and DEA to report to Congress with 180 days of enactment on the "amount and type of meth seizures occurring at both the northern and southern borders" and require DHS to identify "funding, equipment, and infrastructure" recommendations to better combat meth trafficking.
  "We need a consistent cohesive approach to end meth trafficking" said Senator Burns. "We have all seen the effect meth has on our communities and now that domestic production has slowed, we must target our efforts at those bringing it across our borders."
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183, matt_mackowiak@burns.senate.gov.
 
 