SEN. BURNS COMMENTS ON HIGH ENERGY PRICES
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) attended a Senate Commerce Committee hearing today to discuss energy prices. Burns' statements will be made available today via satellite feed at 1:45pm MT.  
   "One of the things the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina is showing us is exactly how important the Gulf is to our nationwide energy network," said Burns. "Montanans are particularly hard hit because so much of our economy depends on production agriculture, and the inputs into growing this country's food and fiber include fuel and fertilizer. We buy retail, sell wholesale, and pay the shipping both ways. In today's hearing, I hope we can identify steps to help in the short-term and also in the longer term issues we are facing in this arena. I suggest that we should continue to grow the operations offshore in the Gulf, and also to other areas where it might be appropriate. Places like the Rocky Mountain West, which has huge reserves under federal land, and ANWR. We need to diversify our production to additional geographic areas. The Senate has called upon the Federal Trade Commission to investigate the causes of high prices, and I support that effort. Americans have the right to know whether they're being taken advantage of." 
   Burns also signed a letter this week sent to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Appropriations Committee asking for increased funding that will allow the LIHEAP program to provide the same level of purchasing power as last year. "With cold winter weather on the horizon, we're going to need a real boost, and I am committed to making sure LIHEAP funds are at a level that keeps folks from choosing between such basic necessities as turning on the heat and buying groceries," said Burns. 
   Burns' comments will be made available today via satellite feed at 1:45pm MT, 3:45pm EST on: 
   Galaxy 3 
  Transponder 7-H 
  Downlink 3840 
   His comments will also be available on the web at www.burns.senate.gov, and via voicemail at 1-800-545-1267, box 333.
   Contact: Jennifer O'Shea, 202/224-6830. 
 
 