SEN. BURNS ANNOUNCES MAJOR EPA GRANT FOR ROCKY MOUNTAIN COLLEGE
  Today Sen. Conrad Burns (R - Mont.) announced Rocky Mountain College will receive a $299,974 federal grant from the Environmental Protection Administration (EPA) as part of the Community Action for a Renewed Environment (CARE) program. 
  The Montana Indian Country CARE Project (MICCP) will foster coordination and collaboration between four tribal colleges with four different tribal reservation communities. The MICCP aims to "educate reservation communities about everyday toxic exposures and help them reduce and mitigate those exposures."
  "This federal grant will give Rocky Mountain College the opportunity to lead an effort to utilize science programs to reduce environmental risk on Tribal lands," said Senator Burns.
  The four projects are Fort Peck reservation and Fort Peck Community College, Fort Belknap reservation and Fort Belknap College, Northern Cheyenne reservation and Chief Dull Knife College, and Crow Reservation and Little Big Horn College.
  According to the EPA, some of the kinds of projects that are likely to result include: 
  1) Toxic reduction strategy for families. Providing information on adequate ventilation, moisture control, proper storage and disposal of hazardous wastes to community members to help them reduce toxics in their own homes and protect their families 
   2) Compile an inventory of all sources of toxic exposures for all the communities as 
  knowledge base for tribal planning and education campaigns. 
   3) Develop culturally sensitive messages that communicate toxic exposure in Indian Country, and disseminate information to community members about what constitutes a toxic exposure and common toxics found in homes and Indian lands.
   4) Inform and promote toxic reduction strategies in a majority of Tribal schools to improve the health of students and teachers
  Priority environmental issues include toxic contamination from methamphetamine labs, drinking water contamination, indoor and outdoor air quality, mold, household chemical use and disposal, pesticide use and solid and hazardous waste.
  Senator Burns is the Chairman of the Senate Interior Appropriations Subcommittee, and a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, which funds the EPA.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183, matt_mackowiak@burns.senate.gov.
 
 