DEFENSE BILL PASSES SENATE; INCLUDES KEY VETERANS LEGISLATION REGARDING FUNERALS, TRI-CARE, SBP-DIC, CONCURRENT RECEIPT
  Today Sen. Conrad Burns (R - Mont.) rejected two amendments to require troop pullout of Iraq as part of S. 2766, the Defense Department (DOD) Authorization bill, which passed 96-0. 
  Senator Burns and nearly the entire Senate rejected an amendment by Senator John Kerry (D - MA) to require a complete pullout of U.S. soldiers from Iraq by July 7, 2007. The Kerry amendment failed in a 93-6 vote. A similar effort led by Senator Carl Levin (D - MI) would have required the President to submit to Congress a plan for the withdrawal of troops from Iraq, but that amendment failed 60-39. Senator Burns opposed both amendments.
  "Once again, we must carry out the mission in Iraq," said Senator Burns. "A deadline for removal would endanger the lives of troops already in Iraq, and would only further the resolve of the insurgents there.
  The DOD Authorization bill contained a number of provisions that were critical to veterans, including successful passage of Senator Burns' military funerals bill, which will compensate veterans who serve in funeral honor guards. Additional amendments cosponsored by Senator Burns decreased the reserve retirement age, expanded concurrent receipt benefits for unemployed veterans, opposed TRI-CARE prescription fee increases, and allow payment of both survivor benefit plans and dependency indemnity compensation (SBP-DIC) concurrently. It is estimated that about 55,000 recipients of these benefits would have received both DIC and SBP benefits in full, rather than having one offset the other. 
  Senator Burns also successfully protected Montana military personnel and infrastructure with a Burns-Conrad amendment that makes it the policy of the United States that the 500 intercontinental ballistic missiles (ICBM) that the United States possesses in the three missile states (Wyoming, North Dakota, and Montana) may not be decreased to 450 for this year.
  "We were successful in delaying this unwise decision by one year and requiring DoD to better explain why this is needed," said Senator Burns. "From the beginning we felt that this proposal was more about cutting the budget than revising our strategic policy. At a time when we are focused on fighting terrorism and securing our nation I think it is more important to secure these missiles than to start eliminating them."
  Senator Burns served in the United States Marine Corps from 1955-1957 and is a senior member of the Senate Defense and Military Construction Appropriations Subcommittees.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183, matt_mackowiak@burns.senate.gov.
 
 