SENATE INCLUDES SEN. BURNS' AMENDMENT TO PROTECT SMALL BROADCASTERS
 Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) announced today that his amendment to protect the interests of small broadcasters from being punished for events outside of their control was agreed to in the Senate. The Burns amendment was added to the Department of Defense reauthorization bill, included with Sen. Brownback's (R-KS) amendment to increase fines for indecency. 
   "These small broadcasters cannot be run through the mill for a decision that was out of their control," said Burns. "They stand by and expect the material they air to be of a certain caliber and it's unfair to give them a guilty title when they're completely innocent. I am glad to see Senator Brownback's amendment increase fines for indecent material, which I think will go a long way in keeping this smut off the air, and I am pleased we were able to include my amendment to protect some of the smaller operations from being punished for something they had nothing to do with." 
   The Burns amendment protects small businesses by calling on the Federal Communications Committee (FCC) to consider the size of the viewing or listening audience of the programming and size of the broadcast market in question as well as whether they had anything to do with producing the offensive content in question. It was included as part of Sen. Brownback's indecency amendment which would increase the maximum penalties for indecent material to $275,000. A Burns provision would allow the fine to be doubled by the FCC if the violation was determined to be aggravated, with a total cap of $3,000,000 during a 24-hour period. 
   Greg MacDonald, President and CEO of Montana Broadcasters Association said: "With his amendment Senator Burns has once again shown his understanding of both the issue and the broadcast industry. He has shown leadership in amending this bill to make certain that the innocent are not lumped in with the guilty and that the punishment for violators fits the magnitude of the crime. Once again we are pleased that the voice of reason comes from the heartland and not the beltway." 
   Senator Burns is a senior member of the Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation.
   Contact: Jennifer O'Shea, 202/224-6830.
 
 