DEFENSE BILL INCLUDES IMPORTANT AMENDMENT FOR FORT HARRISON
  Today Sen. Conrad Burns (R - Mont.) successfully passed an amendment that will likely bring additional special forces to Fort Harrison in Helena as part of S. 2766, the Defense Department (DOD) Authorization bill, which passed 96-0. 
  This amendment, cosponsored by Senator Burns, emphasizes the importance of National Guard and Reserves in our Special Operations forces by calling for a report of how additional Guard and Reserve units should be established as part of QDR recommendations to significantly increase the size of Special Operations. In addition, the amendment points to high-altitude, mountain training in Montana and directs DOD to consider establishing a Special Forces detachment in Montana.
  "Special forces love to come to Fort Harrison to train, and we need a permanent Special Forces detachment to facilitate that training," said Senator Burns. "We know that the National Guard and our Reserve forces can be better utilized, and I believe they can be trained and stationed at Fort Harrison," said Senator Burns. "Montana is one of the few states without National Guard Special Forces units. This amendment will kick-start the process of getting Special Forces in the Montana National Guard."
  Senator Burns also successfully protected Montana military personnel and infrastructure with a Burns-Conrad amendment that makes it the policy of the United States that the 500 intercontinental ballistic missiles (ICBM) that the United States possesses in the three missile states (Wyoming, North Dakota, and Montana) may not be decreased to 450 for this year.
  "We were successful in delaying this unwise decision by one year and requiring DoD to better explain why this is needed," said Senator Burns. "From the beginning we felt that this proposal was more about cutting the budget than revising our strategic policy. At a time when we are focused on fighting terrorism and securing our nation I think it is more important to secure these missiles than to start eliminating them."
  Senator Burns served in the United States Marine Corps from 1955-1957 and is a senior member of the Senate Defense and Military Construction Appropriations Subcommittees.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183, matt_mackowiak@burns.senate.gov.
 
 