SEN. BURNS: SUPPORT FOR SANCTIONS AGAINST JAPAN GROWING
  Today Sen. Conrad Burns (R - Mont.) successfully added an amendment to the fiscal year 2007 Agriculture Appropriations bill which expresses Senate support for authorizing the U.S. Department of the Treasury to levy up to $3.14 billion in economic sanctions against Japan if the beef embargo continues through the summer. 
  "It's time we open those doors," said Senator Burns. "Japan has been jerking us around with another stalling tactic. It's time they open the market."
  The Japanese beef embargo is estimated to cost the United States agriculture industry $7 million per day. Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi will visit the United States next week.
  Apart from the Japan amendment, the Senate Agriculture Appropriations bill includes funding to complete the construction of the Animal BioScience Facility at Montana State University (MSU). The facility will focus on cutting-edge education, genomics research and outreach. Research at this facility will help keep Montana's herd at the forefront of the livestock industry. In addition, the Ft. Keogh Livestock and Range Research Laboratory in Miles City, Montana received funding to continue applied genomics research in support of the Animal BioScience Facility. 
  "This is great news for MSU and for agriculture in Montana," said Dr. Tom McCoy, Vice President for Research at MSU. "This new facility will enable us to better train our young people for careers in agriculture and related fields in animal science. It will allow us to pursue research that will help ensure a safe food supply and consumer satisfaction. It will enable us to help stockgrowers, ranchers and others to improve animal health, be more efficient in production, add value to their products and derive a better, more stable income."
  In addition, the bill which was reported out of the full Senate Appropriations Committee today, including at least 14 important Montana agriculture projects in Bozeman, Butte, Missoula, Sidney, and Miles City and statewide projects.
  Now that the Senate Appropriations Committee has approved the bill, it will go to the full Senate for consideration. Once passed it would then go to a joint House-Senate conference committee to resolve differences in the two versions. Finally, the reconciled versions then go back to the respective chambers for final passage, then on to the President for his signature.
  "We look forward to supporting these important projects for Montana, but our job is not done. I hope Senator Baucus will join me in supporting this bill and my projects on the Senate floor."
  Senator Burns is senior member of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture and Rural Development and a former Agriculture broadcaster.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183, matt_mackowiak@burns.senate.gov.
 
 