FAA APPROVES NEW BOZEMAN RADAR
  After many years of hard work on the part of airport officials and concerned Bozeman citizens, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has approved a plan to drastically improve radar coverage within the Gallatin Valley, and have it operational by 2007. 
   Currently, national air traffic control can only follow aircraft above 12,000 feet, and Gallatin Field has an elevation of 4,471 feet. When aircraft are arriving or departing, and are beyond the threshold of national radar coverage, they must fly under special rules subject to the current weather conditions in the valley. When conditions are clear, the Gallatin Field tower will control the arrivals and departures visually, and via radio. When clouds obscure the view, only one aircraft is allowed below the radar threshold at a time to ensure the safety of all the aircraft in the area. With the implementation of this new radar system, Salt Lake Center and the Gallatin Field tower will be able to control and authorize more aircraft arrivals and departures safely when the skies aren't so clear.
   Senator Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) is a senior member of both the Senate Commerce Committee, which oversees the FAA, and the Appropriations Committee, which funds the FAA. Burns inserted language in a previous appropriations bill directing the FAA to address the radar coverage gap, and provide a timetable and cost analysis for its improvement. "This is a great step forward for commerce in the Gallatin Valley," said Burns. "Getting this radar on line will greatly improve the efficiency and capacity of Gallatin Field, and allow for more traffic through that port. That means more goods coming in and going out, and it increases the value of the airport in the eyes of companies looking to do business in Bozeman. I'm pleased to see this finally come to pass."
   The Gallatin Airport Advisory Board has come up with $1.5 million in cost-sharing funds to make the plan feasible for the FAA. Ted Mathis, Airport Director at Gallatin Field said "This will be a tremendous safety and capacity enhancement for our airport, and we really appreciate Senator Burns' efforts on our behalf."
   Statistical data on enplaned and deplaned passengers at Gallatin Field show it to be one of the fastest growing airports in Montana, with an 8.7% increase in passenger traffic this year as of August.
   Contact: Jennifer O'Shea, 202/224-6830.
 
 