SEN. BURNS TALKS TO MONTANA CATTLE INDUSTRY
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R - Mont) hosted a conference call with nearly 20 members of Montana's agriculture industry to discuss the latest developments in the cattle industry after Japan halted U.S. beef products Friday and new cases of BSE were discovered in Canada and Japan. Japan announced last week that it would halt all U.S. imported beef pending an investigation of three boxes of imported veal, which contained tissues in violation of the U.S. agreement with Japan.  
   Senator Burns said, "This has been a tumultuous day. The status of beef trade internationally is of critical importance to Montana, and I wanted to make sure that my producers had the most up-to-date information possible. The message I heard from Montanans is the same one I would say to Japan - let's be responsible in our reactions. The U.S. beef product that was sent to Japan bears no risk on food safety, but it is still a serious violation of our protocols, and I am glad that USDA has taken swift action. We have a team in place in Japan to conduct a review, and I am confident that we can prove to Japan that there is no reason to be concerned about the safety of U.S. beef. The two new cases of BSE - one in Canada and one in Japan - also need to be taken seriously, and I trust the officials in those countries will respond accordingly. It is too soon to start slamming the borders shut. I will continue to monitor the situation and understand the effect on our farmers and ranchers." 
   Participating in the call today were members of the Montana Stock Growers Association, Montana Farm Bureau Federation, Montana Farmers Union, R-CALF, WIFE, Montana Dairy Association, Montana Beef Network, Montana Branded Beef, Intertribal Agriculture Council, and the Montana Department of Livestock. 
   Japan confirmed today that it discovered its 22nd case of BSE, in a 5-year-old Holstein cow. The animal was born in September 2000, before Japan implemented its feed ban in 2001. Canada also confirmed that it has discovered another case of BSE, in a female Holstein-Hereford cross from the province of Alberta, aged 69 months. Unlike Japan, the Canadian cow was born after Canada established a feed ban. 
   "I am confident that the Canadian case confirmed today poses no risk to the American consumer - the animal never entered the food chain and under our current trade protocols, it could not enter the U.S. We limit product from Canada to cattle under 30 months to reduce the risk of BSE. I know that USDA has been considering expanding those rules, and I expect today's announcement will slow that activity a little," said Burns. 
   Senator Burns spoke again today with USDA Deputy Secretary Chuck Connor to hear the latest on the situation. Senator Burns is a senior member of the Appropriations, Commerce, and Energy Committees.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/224-6830, 202/380-8183.
 
 