SEN. BURNS FIGHTS FOR HIGH INTENSITY DRUG TRAFFICKING AREA
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) joined his colleagues today for a press conference to affirm the value of the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area (HIDTA) Program. John Walters, Director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP), has doubted the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area (HIDTA) Program's ability to demonstrate results, and recommended reducing the HIDTA Program's FY06 budget by 56 percent, reducing its funding from $227 million to $100 million. He also proposed moving the program to the U.S. Department of Justice's Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Force (OCDETF) program. Burns' comments from the press conference will be made available via satellite feed today.  
   "I remain deeply concerned about the ramifications of Director Walters' budget recommendations on law enforcement's ability to counter the methamphetamine production, distribution, and usage in our nation," said Burns. "In Montana, we have seen the positive results of the Rocky Mountain HIDTA, and these proposed cuts are so extreme that this successful program would be almost completely eliminated. I just cannot stand for that when I know the good work that is taking place at ground level with these programs across the country." 
   Chief Frank Garner of the Kalispell Police Department said: "The Rocky Mountain HIDTA program has had a greater impact on drug trafficking in our region than any other single event since the advent of our drug task force nearly 20 years ago. We would not be able to have the impact we have without the coordination and resources provided through HIDTA-it is the lifeblood of our drug enforcement effort." 
   The mission of the Rocky Mountain HIDTA is to facilitate cooperation and coordination among federal, state and local drug enforcement efforts to enhance combating drug trafficking organizations locally, regionally and nationally, and is responsible for Cascade, Flathead, Lewis and Clark, Missoula, and Yellowstone counties. 
   Burns, the lone member of the Montana delegation on the powerful Senate Appropriations Committee, was able to secure HIDTA language in the Commerce, Justice, and Science (CJS) Appropriations bill for FY06 that does not include HIDTA within the Department of Justice. Burns stated: "This is good news, and I was happy to work with Chairman Shelby to make sure HIDTA remains out of the DOJ." In addition, the CJS bill includes funding for Byrne Grants at a level of $625 million, a much higher figure than the House level of $348 million. These grants are awarded to states for use by states and units of local government to improve the functioning of the criminal justice system, with emphasis on violent crime and serious offenders. "We still have a few hurdles to jump in the appropriations process, and we'll have to reconcile the Senate and House versions of these bills in conference, but I will be working in my position on the Appropriations Committee to make sure these critical programs get the attention they deserve." 
   Burns' comments will be made available today via satellite feed at 1:45pm MT, 3:45pm EST on: 
   Galaxy 3 
  Transponder 7-H 
  Downlink 3840 
   The comments will also be available on the web at: http://burns.senate.gov/, and via phone at 1-800-545-1267, box 333.
   Contact: Jennifer O'Shea, 202/224-6830.
 
 