SEN. BURNS FIGHTS FOR BETTER COMPETITION FOR FARMERS
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) submitted his statement in regards to pesticide harmonization at an Agriculture Committee hearing today. Burns has worked for over three years to put an end to the trade imbalance affecting the agriculture community, and is a lead co-sponsor of S. 1406, a bill to allow American agricultural producers to purchase Canadian pesticides for use on their farms in the United States.  
   "American farmers should not have to continue to tolerate artificial barriers that prevent fair pricing," said Burns. "We are talking about the same chemicals on both sides of the border, but that border is preventing the free market from doing its job and smoothing out price disparities. The only way we can compete in the world market is to make sure we are all playing with the same deck of cards, and right now that's not the case. This bill would ensure our farmers equal treatment and would guarantee that the deck is not stacked against American farmers when they go to the table." 
   Pesticide Harmonization will allow the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to issue registrations to allow people to import Canadian pesticides that are identical or substantially similar to products already on the shelves here in the U.S. Dealers and distributors, with their expertise in labeling and handling pesticides, will likely comprise the majority of registrants, but individuals or organizations could be certified as well. 
   "We need to keep our players on par with Canadian players, and this bill would do just that," stated Burns. "Many valid concerns have been raised, and I look forward to continuing work to help resolve these concerns and making sure the same rules apply to this game, regardless of what side of the border on which you sit." 
   S. 1406 is supported by the Montana Department of Agriculture, the Montana Farm Bureau, and the Montana Grain Growers Association, as well as the National Association of State Directors of Agriculture, the National Association of Wheat Growers, National Barley Growers Association, and many more organizations committed to serving our American farmers.
   Contact: Jennifer O'Shea, 202/224-6830.
 
 