SEN. BURNS INTRODUCES HISTORIC ST. MARY'S REHABILITATION LEGISLATION
  On Friday Sen. Conrad Burns (R - Mont.) introduced the "St. Mary Diversion and Conveyance Works and Milk River Project Act of 2006." This historic legislation, if passed, will authorize major repairs for the reconstruction project along the Hi-Line. 
  The bill will be referred to the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, of which Senator Burns is a member. Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee Chairman Pete Domenici (R - NM) has agreed to conduct a field hearing regarding the legislation, in Montana. It will then need to be reported out of the committee and voted on by the full Senate. 
  The authorizing legislation represents many months of coordination with the St. Mary's Working Group, an advisory council working to reconstruct the aging diversion facilities.
  "We've been in constant contact with the irrigators, the Fort Belknap and Blackfeet tribes, and local governments, as well as the State of Montana, to deliver the best legislation possible to repair St. Mary's. There is a sense of urgency, due to the disrepair of the system and we need a plan in place before a catastrophic failure occurs," said Senator Burns. "I'm proud of our efforts so far, and I am fully committed to passing this legislation and securing funding to get the project started as soon as possible."
  Senator Burns has also made an appropriations request for fiscal year 2007, which begins October 1, 2006, to begin the repair of the project. The funding request falls under the Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee, of which Senator Burns is a senior member.
  The Milk River Project and the St. Mary Diversion Facilities have now been in operation for nearly 100 years. During this time, the repairs have been minimal, pushing the system into disrepair. Together, the St. Mary Diversion Facilities and the Milk River Project, known as the "lifeline of the Hi-Line," affect approximately 70,000 people directly or indirectly and supply municipal water to about 14,000 people. Senator Burns has called St. Mary's the "backbone of the region's agricultural economy."
  "This project is my number one priority for Montana," said Senator Burns, "I will do everything that I can to ensure that we get this done."
  Senator Burns is senior member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources and Appropriations Committees, the committees which will handle both the authorizing and funding for this project.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183, matt_mackowiak@burns.senate.gov.
 
 