SEN. BURNS REACTS TO INTENT TO SUE BY FRIENDS OF WILD SWAN, SWAN VIEW COALITION
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) announced today his disappointment in learning that two environmental groups, the Friends of the Wild Swan and the Swan View Coalition, have filed a Notice of Intent to sue on the Robert-Wedge and West Side Reservoir Post-Fire Projects.  
   Burns worked to pass legislation with the Flathead and Kootenai National Forest Rehabilitation Act to expedite the post fire projects to restore the burned areas. The post-fire projects include some salvage timber harvest, much of which is going to local sawmills. 
   "My goal in getting the act passed was to provide a forum for all points of view to be heard, and a decision made that would be the best for the land and the communities," said Burns. "Both the Friends of the Wild Swan and the Swan View Coalition were included in this public involvement process. Their efforts along with more than 80 others representing environmental, industry, and local community groups, met to come up with a suitable solution, and right now these two groups are simply delaying salvage timber harvests, and unnecessarily causing the value of the wood to decrease. "This was not a perfect agreement, and no one got all they wanted. By participating in the process, then suing over the results when they didn't get their way, these groups are sending a clear message that they only have their own best interests at heart." 
   Burns continued: "It seems to me that these groups are playing on both sides of the court and changing their stance on a daily basis. These types of projects help restore areas after they are devastated by forest fires, and on top of that lay the ground for a host of jobs in our Montana communities. I can't see any reason someone would find to object to that, and I hope these groups will be able to see the value these programs have so they can continue. The stability of the land and our rural communities hang in the balance."
   Contact: Jennifer O'Shea, 202/224-6830.
 
 