SEN. BURNS PRAISES SUPREME COURT RULING ON BEEF CHECKOFF
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) expressed support for today's Supreme Court ruling that the beef checkoff is constitutional, thus allowing the program to continue building consumer support for beef products. The 6-3 decision overturns a ruling by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit that found the federal Beef Promotion and Research Act of 1985 in violation of the First Amendment.  
   Burns noted: "The beef checkoff has been resoundingly successful in promoting consumer interest in beef, and I am happy to learn about today's Supreme Court decision. Cattlemen support the checkoff-it has helped grow consumer demand for beef more than 25 percent since 1998 and has increased the prices that producers receive for their cattle." January 2005 independent research indicates that a significant 73 percent of beef producers support the current $1-per-head beef checkoff program. 
   "We are absolutely elated," said Steve Pilcher, executive vice-president of the Montana Stockgrowers Association. "We have long been supporters of the checkoff because it addresses three important issues: education, food safety, and research. Following discovery of BSE, the checkoff was essential in maintaining consumer confidence in our product. A lot of ranchers think the checkoff doesn't directly impact them, but the truth is it reversed a 20-year decline in beef consumption, which in the end, puts more money in the pockets of Montana ranchers." 
   The familiar commercials - "Beef. It's What's For Dinner" - are perhaps the most visible of the Beef Promotion and Research Board's activities, but checkoff dollars go to a variety of educational and research programs. The beef checkoff has stimulated the development of more than 2,100 new beef products since 1998. Advertising tracking research indicates that the checkoff is improving consumer attitudes about beef's nutritional value. And, the checkoff's organized and proactive public response to a single case of BSE diagnosed in the U.S. has been credited with maintaining the high level of consumer confidence in the safety of U.S. beef.
 
 