SEN. BURNS QUESTIONS ACTING BUREAU OF RECLAMATION COMMISSIONER ON ST. MARY'S DIVERSION FACILITIES
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R - Mont.) today questioned Acting Bureau of Reclamation (BoR) Commissioner William Rinne on changes in policy at the BoR regarding the St. Mary Diversion Facilities and the Milk River Project, which provide water for hi-line communities from Glasgow to Glacier Park. 
  In his statement for the record, Senator Burns reviewed the history of the Milk River Project and the St. Mary Diversion Facilities, which have now been in "operation for nearly 100 years with minimum repairs and improvements." Together, the St. Mary Diversion Facilities and the Milk River Project are known as the "lifeline of the hi-line," affecting approximately 70,000 people directly or indirectly and supplying municipal water to about 14,000 people. St. Mary's is also the "backbone of the region's agricultural economy providing water to irrigate over 110,000 acres on approximately 660 farms."
  Senator Burns said, "The St. Mary Diversion Facilities are facing catastrophic failure. Maintenance costs have increased with the accelerating deterioration of the aging facilities. Montanans across the hi-line know this problem very well, and we are committed to fixing this problem. Over many months, my office has worked closely with the St. Mary Working Group to develop legislation to address this issue. I have made this my number one priority for this year."
  The St. Mary Working Group, an advisory council working to reconstruct the aging diversion facilities, has been working closely with Senator Burns to develop legislation for major rehabilitation of the St. Mary Diversion Facilities. That legislation is currently in second draft form and moving forward for legislative consideration this year.
  Acting BoR Commissioner William Rinne was questioned about a BoR report entitled, "Managing for Excellence, an Action Plan for the 21st Century Bureau of Reclamation," which highlights major repair challenges, including the financing and rehabilitation of projects like St. Mary's.
  BoR Commissioner John Keys announced his retirement March 17, 2006. The Interior Secretary nominee, Governor Dirk Kempthorne (R - Idaho) is awaiting confirmation, which is expected as early as this week. 
  Senator Burns is a senior member of the Senate Energy Committee and Chairman of the Senate Interior Appropriations Subcommittee.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183, matt_mackowiak@burns.senate.gov.
 
 