SEN. BURNS, USDA ANNOUNCE $228,000 GRANT TO MONTANA COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION IN MISSOULA
  U.S. Agriculture Under Secretary for Rural Development Thomas Dorr visited Missoula today to present a $228,000 grant to the Montana Community Development Corporation in Missoula. The funding, supported by Sen. Conrad Burns through the Agriculture Appropriations Subcommittee, will be used to develop innovative uses for woody biomass for renewable energy and healthy forest purposes. 
  "This grant program helps to reduce the risk of wildfires by removing built-up fuel hazards and improves forest health," said Under Secretary Dorr. "In addition, these projects give an economic boost to our rural communities, increasing the nation's sources of renewable energy."
  According to the USDA, this year's recipients were selected based on a number of factors, including those that make it economical to remove woody biomass for forest lands and turning it into marketable products, while reducing the costs of recovery. In addition, grants were awarded for projects targeted at removing economic and market barriers in using small-diameter trees and woody biomass.
  Senator Burns said, "As this process has developed it seems as though there has always been some piece of the puzzle missing to make this effort complete. This grant will help put a piece of that puzzle in place to address the issue of how to economically get these byproducts out of the woods to be processed into chips or other value added products. This $228,000 grant will enable to the firm known as All Woody deliver materials to an accumulation yard where they can be more economically processed in larger quantities. Additional benefits from this grant will be to eliminate some slash burning which will improve air quality; it will facilitate the economic feasibility of fuel reduction projects involving small diameter materials. It will also assist the local economy by allowing the recipient to employ local workers with good paying jobs."
  Woody biomass includes trees, woody plants, limbs, tops, and needles that are byproducts of ecosystem restoration and hazardous fuel reduction activities in national forests and grasslands. Accumulation of this material can provide fuel, which can increase the intensity and spread of wildfires. Many communities across the United States have begun to use biomass byproducts to manufacture specialty products, generate energy, such as steam and electric, and for a variety of other uses, such as garden mulch.
  Senator Burns is a former Agriculture broadcaster and senior member of the Agriculture Appropriations Subcommittee which funds the USDA.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183, matt_mackowiak@burns.senate.gov.
 
 