SEN. BURNS APPLAUDS PASSAGE OF DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) announced today that the Senate passed S. 2400, the National Defense Authorization Act, last night by a vote of 97-0. This bill includes $447.2 billion in defense spending, $25 billion of which will be directed towards emergency contingency funds for Iraq and Afghanistan. Also included is an increase of more than $20 billion over current levels for other expenditures. Also included is a 3.5 percent military pay raise along with increases in other benefits.  
   "Right now it's imperative we do all we can to keep our troops at home and abroad prepared for the jobs they are doing," said Burns. "We are facing difficult challenges, some of which our country has never had to face before, and our men and women in uniform are doing an extraordinary job at keeping our homeland secure and Americans protected. I am glad we were able to pass this bill out of the Senate last night and move it one step further in the process of final passage." 
   Also included in the Defense Authorization Act is a provision to increase fines for indecency, following the Janet Jackson incident at the Super Bowl. This provision will increase fines for indecent programming to $275,000. Included with the indecency fines is a Burns amendment to protect small broadcasters by calling on the Federal Communications Committee (FCC) to consider the size of the viewing or listening audience of the programming and size of the broadcast market in question as well as whether they had anything to do with producing the offensive content in question. 
   "These small broadcasters cannot be run through the mill for a decision that was out of their control," said Burns. "They stand by and expect the material they air to be of a certain caliber and it's unfair to give them a guilty title when they're completely innocent. I am glad to see Senator Brownback's amendment increase fines for indecent material, which I think will go a long way in keeping this smut off the air, and I am pleased we were able to include my amendment to protect some of the smaller operations from being punished for something they had nothing to do with." 
   The Senate version of the Defense Authorization Act must now be reconciled with the House version, a final version will then be voted on in both houses before it can go to the President to be signed into law.
   Contact: Jennifer O'Shea, 202/224-6830.
 
 