GIVE MYERS HIS VOTE: SEN. BURNS TESTS COMPROMISE WITH 9TH CIRCUIT NOMINEE
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont) called for an up or down vote on the nomination of William G. Myers III to the 9th Circuit Court Of Appeals. Montana is one of the states in the 9th Circuit jurisdiction.  
   "Mr. Myers is a distinguished attorney who is a nationally-recognized expert in the area of natural resources and land use law, and giving him a vote is the right thing to do," said Burns. "He is a man of strong character that would reestablish balance into the Ninth Circuit, and I am committed to making sure he gets the vote he deserves." 
   In light of last night's compromise on judicial nominees in the Senate, Burns has asked Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-TN) to bring up a vote on Myers' confirmation. "If the compromise brokers say Judges Owen and Brown meet the criteria, then Myers should fit the bill as well, so let's see whether this was all talk." 
   Burns was joined in his call for Myers' confirmation by Senators Allard (R-CO) and Bennett (R-UT), Craig (R-ID), Ensign (R-NV), Enzi (R-WY), Hatch (R-UT), Kyl, (R-AZ) and Smith (R-OR). 
   Senator Allard added: "Bill Myers is a thoughtful, well-qualified lawyer from the West who will bring an independent voice to the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals. His thorough understanding of natural resource issues combined with his vast knowledge of our laws government public lands make him an ideal nominee for the Court of Appeals." 
   The 9th Circuit Court has been in the spotlight due to their ruling that "Under God" in the Pledge of Allegiance was unconstitutional, as well as having 27 of 28 9th Circuit decisions reversed by the U.S. Supreme Court. "They need more judges to clear out the backlog, and they could use some rural common sense on the bench as well," Burns added. "We owe it to the people to give them a speedy trial as guaranteed in the 6th Amendment, and the temperament of the Court should more accurately reflect the population."
   Contact: Jennifer O'Shea, 202/224-6830.
 
 