SEN. BURNS EXPRESSES DISASTER RELIEF FRUSTRATION WITH AGRICULTURE SECRETARY
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) spoke today with U.S. Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns to personally express his concerns over recent comments by the Secretary, indicating that emergency agriculture assistance is not needed. Senator Burns, who has led the fight in the U.S. Senate to secure energy assistance for producers battling record high fuel and fertilizer costs, made the Secretary aware of the critical need for this package. 
  Senator Burns said, "He needed to understand the lay of the land in Montana - I just don't think he knows what we are dealing with. I made him aware of the situation on the ground, and I think he understands better now. We are just coming out of seven years of drought, and to be hit with these input cost increases - well, for some folks it is just too much to take. The hurricanes drove these costs through the roof, and as we provide relief to folks in the Gulf States, we can't ignore the needs of those in other states who are feeling the pinch of the hurricane's effects on fuel and fertilizer costs. I intend to keep pushing for this emergency relief funding, even though we don't have the full support of the Secretary."
  To help America's farmers and ranchers deal with the devastating effect of rising energy costs, as well as weather-related losses throughout the country, Senator Burns included a $4 billion Agriculture Disaster Relief amendment an emergency spending bill, which is currently being debated in the Senate. The amendment received a unanimous vote of the full Senate Appropriations Committee. Among the provisions is assistance for fuel and fertilizer costs, equal to 30% of a producer's direct payment. This funding is designed to help growers manage input costs, after seeing fuel and fertilizer prices skyrocket in the wake of Hurricane Katrina.
  Senator Burns is a senior member of the Senate Agriculture Appropriations Subcommittee, which provides the USDA's budget.
 
 