SEN. BURNS ANNOUNCES $98,000 EDUCATION GRANT FOR UM-MISSOULA'S COLLEGE OF ARTS AND SCIENCES
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R - Mont.) today announced that the University of Montana's College of Arts and Sciences will be receiving a U.S. Department of Education (DOE) grant in the amount of $98,000.00 through the International Research and Studies Program. The Central and Southwest Asia Studies (CASWAS) program requested the funding for a project titled "New Travels on Old Roads: Undergraduate Teaching Materials on the Geography of Central Asia and the Caucasus." 
  Senator Burns said, "I have looked at the CASWAS project and understand the goals they wish to achieve. For the United States to remain actively engaged in foreign affairs, it is vital that Central Asia and the Caucasus are researched and understood on a larger scale. We need future leaders to be aware of the cultural and geographical differences between these regions and the U.S. These studies can provide valuable insights for a post 9-11 world."
  The DOE funding will support the design, development and evaluation of an undergraduate curriculum package focused on the complex geographies of Central Asia and the Caucasus. The goal of this project is to help students in the program gain a more thorough knowledge of these predominantly Islamic regions. 
  The newly created curriculum will include various instructional tools including an undergraduate introductory textbook, an instructor's manual, and a multimedia compact disk with supplemental materials including maps and activities, resource links, data sets, and virtual field trips.
  The Central Asia and Caucasus geographical regions are critical to the world and America's security. Included in the Central Asia Caucasus are Armenia, Republic of Georgia, Turkey, Azerbaijan, Iran, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan, Tajikistan, Kyrgyzstan, Mongolia, and the Xinjiang province of China. Islam is the predominant religion in all of these nations, with the exception of the Republic of Georgia, Armenia, and Mongolia. The CASWAS project will address the urgent need for more integrated, well-documented and comprehensive teaching and learning on Central Asia and the Caucasus regions. 
  The CASWAS project will focus around six central themes: (1) environmental geography; (2) cultural landscapes and religious diversity; (3) population and settlement; (4) history and geopolitics; (5) social and economic development; and (6) globalization and local responses. These themes can be adapted for semester long courses or intensive abbreviated course study programs. 
  Senator Burns is a three-term U.S. Senator and a senior member of the powerful Senate Appropriations Committee.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183, matt_mackowiak@burns.senate.gov.
 
 