SEN. BURNS ANNOUNCES HELENA AIRPORT TO PARTICIPATE IN ACCESS CONTROL PILOT PROGRAM
  Sen. Conrad Burn (R-Mont.) announced today that Helena Regional Airport has been selected to participate in the Transportation Security Administration's Access Control Pilot Program. Helena is one of 10 sites that have been selected for this program so far.  
   "This program is valuable gage of how these specific technologies hold up in real life situations," said Burns. "The information we gather during the tests of these various sites will allow more secure and better functioning systems into the future, and that is a goal we are all trying to meet everyday. Helena's involvement shows the integral role this airport is playing to get our national security up to par, and I am glad to see it chosen as one of the test sites for this important program." 
   The pilot program will test Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) technology, anti-piggybacking technology, advanced video surveillance technology and various biometric technologies in order to evaluate the security of controlled areas at airports. At the Helena Airport, a vehicle tracking system using voice recognition, an optical character reader, and a video motion analysis technology will be tested to track a vehicle's authorized path in a secure area. 
   TSA is conducting the pilot in two phases. Phase I will include the ten airports selected testing various off-the-shelf biometric technologies under a variety of real-world operational environments in an effort to provide unbiased evaluations of their suitability of use. TSA will use information obtained during Phase I to help determine which technologies will be evaluated in Phase II projects. Information gathered during these pilot projects will be made available to appropriate industry representatives so they may make informed decisions when designing access control systems to meet security needs and regulatory requirements. 
   For more information regarding TSA, see the website at www.tsa.gov.
   Contact: Jennifer O'Shea, 202/224-6830.
 
 