SEN. BURNS MEETS WITH GREAT FALLS OFFICIALS ON METH PROBLEM
 Sen. Conrad Burns (R - Mont.) today continued a series of methamphetamine meetings by holding a roundtable discussion with local law enforcement and community leaders to discuss the serious problem of meth use in Great Falls and around the state. 
   Attending the meeting were representatives of Cascade County, the Great Falls Police Department, the County Sheriff's Department, the Gateway Recovery Center, the U.S. District Court of Great Falls, the Boys and Girls Club of Great Falls, and the Little Shell Chippewa Tribe.  
   Law enforcement officials praised the results of High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas (HIDTA), an effort where federal, state and local officers and assets are marshaled to combat illegal drugs. The program has been successfully run from the Office of National Drug Control Policy for several years. However, the HIDTA program will be moved to the Department of Justice as part of the president's 2007 budget. Both Senator Burns and local law enforcement officials oppose this idea. 
   Senator Burns said, "Last year we got the HIDTA funds restored, and I'm a big supporter of the program. HIDTA breaks down traditional turf issues through coordination. HIDTA needs to remain where it is with full funding. I think it's a very effective program." 
   Cascade County Commissioner Peggy Beltrone told the group that in the first 41 days of 2006 in Cascade County, approximately 50 children have been removed from their homes and 43% of those children were removed because of meth labs being set up by their parents or guardians. Commissioner Beltrone said we are "stretching our social service network to the brink." 
   Brian Black, a narcotics detective for the Great Falls Police Department and member of the Montana Narcotics Officers Association, detailed the growing meth problem in the midwest. He said, "Meth is an equal opportunity destroyer. It's not an east coast problem. It's not some little Western problem. What we're seeing now is users and sellers are going out of Montana to buy cheap meth. They can buy a pound for $5,000 and sell it for $16,000. There are superlabs in Mexico that are making 100 pounds of meth a day. The problem is meth is a very expensive drug to fight." 
   In describing the Weed and Seed program, Corky Grove, Great Falls Police Chief, said, "In 2002 we had 29 meth labs in Great Falls. In 2005 we had five. The Weed and Seed program targets specific high-risk communities and utilizes funding and law enforcement efforts to clean them up, and then re-seed them to ensure the problem does re-occur." Kris Dunn, Local Site Coordinator of the Great Falls Weed and Seed program, stressed the foster care problems that include laws based on re-unification 
   Senator Burns said, "We're really trying to deal with the devastating effect of meth for our families. I listened today to experts in Great Falls about meth, from the prevention, law enforcement, adjudication, and treatment side. We have to attach this problem from every angle. I have a Meth Prevention and Awareness bill that I introduced last week that tries to use the lessons learned from the Montana Meth Project to offer incentives across the country for effective campaigns that secure a public and private partnership for funding. On the law enforcement side, we have the Combat Meth Act provisions that have been added to the Patriot Act, which we'll vote on in Washington this week. To succeed in fighting meth we must give our law enforcement officers the tools they need while also attacking consumer attitudes. An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure." 
   Senator Burns introduced S. 2315, the Methamphetamine Awareness and Prevention Act of 2006 which provides $25 million in federal granst to local entities that show a public and private dollar for dollar match for effective education and awareness programs. 
   Today's meeting was the second in a series of meth roundtable discussions with law enforcement and local officials. The first was held February 4 in Missoula. The next meeting will be held April 22 in Billings. 
   Senator Burns is the founder of the Meth Caucus in the Senate with over 30 members. Senator Burns in a senior member of the Appropriations committee and three-term U.S. Senator.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183. 
 
 