SEN. BURNS CALLS ATTENTION TO INCREASED MONTANA FRAUD, IDENTITY THEFT
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R - Mont) reviewed a report issued today by the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) summarizing the number of fraud and identity theft complaints received during 2005. In that report, Montana ranked 16th out of 50 states in the number of fraud claims filed with the FTC, and ranked 44th out of 50 states for cases of identity theft filed with the FTC. In 2005, Montana had 398 complaints of identity theft, up from 364 last year. Overall complaints of fraud in 2005 numbered 1,253, slightly higher than the 1,101 complaints in 2004.  
   Senator Burns said, "Fraud, and identity theft, regardless of the number of instances, is a problem for all Montanans. Those who perpetuate such fraud schemes pray upon those who are the most vulnerable and identity theft is no exception. Identity theft places unnecessary stress and inconvenience on victims, many of whom must spend months rebuilding their credit and their lives. I have, and always will, continue to fight for stronger penalties for those who commit these crimes on fellow Montanans." 
   Senator Burns will meet with FTC Commissioner William Kovacic next week to discuss the data, Montana's fraud trends, and potential legislative solutions. 
   The FTC report revealed that of the 686,383 complaints filed with the FTC in 2005, 37% were related to identity theft last year. This information is then shared via a secured database with 1,400 other agencies at the federal, state and local level, including agencies in Canada and Australia. 
   Jay Miller of the FTC Bureau of Consumer Protection said, "We don't receive a lot of complaints from Montana, though that does not mean that fraud and identity theft aren't taking place. These numbers reflect the incidents that have been reported to us. There could be many more cases out there that we do not know about." However, Deborah Platt, Chairman of the FTC commented on the ease of making a report to the FTC explaining that "With a call or a click, consumers can file complaints with law enforcers across the country and the world. These reports provide ammunition that helps law enforcers fight fraud and identity theft." 
   According to the FTC, the top five categories for fraud in Montana were: 1) prizes, sweepstakes and lotteries; 2) internet auctions; 3) shop-at-home catalog sales; 4) foreign money orders; 5) internet services and computer complaints. The most common forms of identity theft were: 1) credit card fraud; 2) bank fraud; 3) phone or utilities fraud; 4) Government documents or Benefits fraud; 5) employee-related fraud. 
   Senator Burns encouraged Montana consumers to "be vigilant of your personal information. Take steps to protect yourself and your information. Familiarize yourself with your bank and credit card company's consumer privacy policies, and shred any personal documents with vital information. Also, if you have been a victim of fraud or identity theft, please report it to the FTC. This information allows the FTC to monitor trends and patterns in order to determine how to best serve the needs of Americans."
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/224-6830, 202/380-8183.
 
 