SEN. BURNS MEETS WITH DEPUTY DRUG CZAR IN ADVANCE OF BOZEMAN DRUG CONFERENCE
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R - Mont.) met today with Deputy Drug Czar Scott Burns to discuss the Montana Meth project, the Montana Narcotics Officer's Association (MNOA) conference in Bozeman this week, and the National Town Hall on Meth held in Washington on Monday, January 23, which Sen. Burns co-hosted.  
   Deputy Director Burns will speak at the MNOA conference banquet Thursday night in Bozeman, and Sen. Burns wanted to impress upon him the depth of the meth problem in Montana. 
   Sen. Burns said, "Montana has been hit hard by meth. There's not a neighborhood that's exempt from the destruction. We've been aided in fighting back by the tremendous success of the Montana Meth Project, which drives at changing consumer attitudes about the drug. It goes after prevention, which we need to fight meth use effectively." 
   Deputy Director Burns praised Sen. Burns for his efforts in fighting meth in Montana legislatively, as well as his work as the founder of the Senate's Anti-Meth Caucus. Sen. Burns touted the efforts of the state to put meth precursors, such as pseudoephedrine sold behind the counter, similar to a nationwide law considered in the U.S. Senate, but that has not yet been approved. 
   Sen. Burns cited the results of the National Town Hall on Meth held last Monday in Washington, which was broadcast via satellite to Bozeman. "I was happy to facilitate a meeting between Montana and Washington, D.C. It's not everyday that a group of folks from Bozeman can visit with the Attorney General without leaving their hometown," said Burns. He recalled seeing meth use at its highest in the West, but quickly moving across the country into the East. 
   Sen. Burns stressed the positive effects of the Montana Meth Project, which utilizes dynamic radio, print and television advertisements to show the consequences of meth use, specifically to adolescents. The White House Office of National Drug Control Policy this fall unveiled a new advertising campaign targeting meth. The program was designed to mobilize individuals and local community groups to reduce meth use and ran in 23 cities, but did not include Montana. 
   As a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee which funds the Office of National Drug Control Policy and the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas, Sen. Burns was instrumental in securing a greater commitment from the Administration to fight meth, by fully funding the HIDTA program which provides assistance to state and local law enforcement, and ensuring that their resources target meth effectively. 
   Following the success of the National Town Hall on Meth, Sen. Burns will hold three local town hall meetings on meth in Montana. The first will be in Missoula, Saturday, February 4 at 2pm (MST) at the Missoula Area Economic Development Corporation. The other two are in Great Falls on February 25 and in Billings on March 25, with the details still being finalized.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/224-6830, 202/380-8183.
 
 