SEN. BURNS MEETS WITH AREA LANDOWNERS ON WILD FIRES
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R - Mont.) met with area landowners on Saturday in Billings to listen to their concerns regarding this year's wild fire season. 
   "Last weekend I met with land owners in Eastern Montana and at Pompey's Pillar to listen to their concerns about how the wildland fire suppression was handled," said Senator Burns.
   In those meetings and in his continuing efforts to receive updates from the affected regions and review policies and federal resource allocation, Senator Burns has ensured all stakeholders that he aims to promote an efficient and effective response to protect lives and property.
   "I am anxious to meet with fire operations managers to review our processes in the wake of natural disasters affecting Montanans," said Senator Burns. "I am supportive of our ranchers and empathize with them having heard firsthand about their losses. I will seek to increase ECP funding for 2006 disasters when the Agriculture Appropriations bill, which contains my agriculture disaster package, comes to the Senate floor. We will push for this funding to rehabilitate farmland damaged by these natural disasters."
   Additionally, Senator Burns has put the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) on notice that county requests for emergency haying and grazing should be expedited. USDA responded quickly to our first request, approving Carbon County in a matter of hours Friday night. Senator Burns has spoken with Deputy Agriculture Secretary Chuck Conner and Under Secretary Mark Rey to urge them to direct funding to emergency needs, such as feed assistance, water, fences, and other needs.
   Producers throughout Montana are urged to contact both local NRCS and FSA offices. Under current contract, NRCS can replace EQIP practices that are damaged as a result of a natural disaster. Producers can sign up now for Emergency Conservation Funding through their county FSA offices. Senator Burns' office has also talked with the NRCS office in Montana and expressed the Senator's concern, which yielded from the State Conservationist a single point of contact for post fire relief. That person is Ron Nadwornick, the NRCS contact for private land damaged in fires. He can be reached at (406) 587-6998 and may be helpful regarding NRCS technical assistance, starting of grants, multi-agency burned area assessments.
   "Above all, I want Montana producers to contact my office at anytime and we will do everything possible to ensure they are getting what they need," said Senator Burns.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183, matt_mackowiak@burns.senate.gov.
 
 