SEN. BURNS STRONGLY SUPPORTS CHILD CUSTODY PROTECTION ACT
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R - Mont.) hailed today's passage of S. 403, the Child Custody Protection Act, by a vote of 65-34 in the Senate. Sen. Burns cosponsored this legislation, which would prohibit the transportation of a minor across state lines in order to obtain an abortion in violation the parental notification laws of the minor's home state. 
   The legislation would only apply in cases where crossing a state line to obtain an abortion violates applicable parental notification statutes. The punishment for any person in violation would be a maximum of one year in prison and a fine. There is an exception in the legislation if the abortion is necessary to save the life of the mother.
   "When a state passes a parental consent law, those who would knowingly and intentionally violate that law by crossing a state law should be punished," said Senator Burns. "When it comes to the life of the unborn, people should not be able to go forum shopping with the sole intention of getting around their state's laws."
   Typically, parental consent laws stipulate that in order for a minor to obtain an abortion, the minor must obtain the consent of, or notify, at least one parent, or go to court and obtain permission from a judge, a process known as judicial bypass. Montana has such a law, but it is currently not in effect due to a court order. To date, 29 states have effective parental consent laws, according to the National Right to Life Committee.
   Legislation such as this has never received an up or down vote in the Senate. A similar bill, S. 1645, failed a cloture vote 54-45 in the 105th Congress. In 2005, the House passed H.R. 748, the Child Interstate Abortion Notification Act, which contains many of the same provisions, but would also include liability provisions for doctors who perform the abortions.
   The Senate-passed version permits parents to seek civil damages from the individual who transports their daughter across state lines in violation of the Child Custody Protection Act. Senator Burns voted in favor of a compromise amendment offered by Senators John Ensign (R - NV) and Barbara Boxer (D - CA), which passed, that will ensure that an incestuous father cannot file such a lawsuit seeking civil damages if his daughter's pregnancy was the result of his own acts. Additionally, it will ensure that incestuous fathers who impregnate their daughters and transport them across state lines for an abortion can be prosecuted and fined.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183, matt_mackowiak@burns.senate.gov.
 
 