SEN. BURNS PENS LETTER TO DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE CALLING FOR COMMITTEE ACTION
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) addressed yet another concern today on the state of Canadian importation of banned beef into the United States.
   In a letter written to Ann Veneman, Secretary of the U.S. Department of Agriculture, Burns voiced his intention to pursue the matter through Committee action in the U.S. Senate. He also spoke of the importance of maintaining the confidence of American consumers, and how that confidence is likely to waver in light of recent reports of more than 33 million pounds of beef making its way into the United States by way of Canada. 
   "I am proud to be from Montana, where the decision was made in Federal Court, that Canadian beef was improperly entering this country," Burns wrote. "I am proud that it was a Montana-based industry organization that had the courage to take this matter to court," he continued. "In Montana, our word is good and a lot of us continue to operate on that principle. Unfortunately, I am beginning to question the word of the USDA when it comes to the Canadian beef imports. The USDA is here to protect the American consumer and producer. With the revelation of the imported beef, I am not sure who has been protected, and I believe I would be remiss in representing my constituents if I did not contact you and address the issue of beef imports from Canada."
   Burns is a member of the Senate Appropriations' Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development and Related Agencies. A copy of Senator Burns' letter is attached.
   The Honorable Ann Veneman, Secretary
  United States Department of Agriculture
  200 A Whitten Building
  1400 Independence Avenue SW
  Washington, DC 20250
   Dear Secretary Veneman:
   I believe I would be remiss in representing my constituents if I did not contact you and address the issue of beef imports from Canada. This is a matter that has caused me a great deal of concern.
   The livestock industry and America's consumers put their confidence in the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) when Mad Cow disease was found in Canada. The USDA stepped up to the plate and established a ban on all beef imports from Canada. This put the American citizens' level of trust at a high level. In my previous correspondence with you, I have applauded this decision and have urged you to maintain the border closure to all Canadian beef.
   I respect Dr. DeHaven's recent acknowledgement that some processed beef had found its way into the United States. I intend to pursue this matter through Committee action. The flaws Dr. DeHaven refers to must be reviewed and changes implemented to see that this type of error will not happen in the future.
   Since the May 20, 2004, article in the Washington Post and subsequent publications regarding Canadian beef imports, my confidence in the decision makers at USDA has faltered a great degree. The USDA publicly stated that ground beef and processed imports had been banned. Yet, news stories say over 33 million pounds of beef came into this Country between September 2003 and April 2004. Who are we to believe?
   I am proud to be from Montana, where the decision was made in Federal Court, that Canadian beef was improperly entering this Country. I am proud that it was a Montana-based industry organization that had the courage to take this matter to Court.
   In Montana, our word is good and a lot of us continue to operate on that principle. Unfortunately, I am beginning to question the word of the USDA when it comes to the Canadian beef imports. The USDA is here to protect the American consumer and the producer. With the revelation of the imported beef, I am not sure who has been protected.
   Secretary Veneman, there have been no formal rules made regarding changes in our original policy. The public has not been allowed to weigh in on this very important matter. That is how our system works. We place our trust in how the system is supposed to function and now many of my producers are questioning that trust.
   Sincerely,
   Conrad Burns
  United States Senator.
 
 