SEN. BURNS FIGHTS FOR END TO MONOPOLY POWER
  Today, Sen. Conrad Burns (R - Mont.) called on the "Big Four" railroad companies to come to the table and address the outcry of concern from rail customers at hearing in the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. The hearing, designed to examine the effects of inadequate railroad competition on coal-based electric generation, was held at the request of Sen. Burns.
  "In a nation that's as vast as ours, a healthy and efficient delivery system is essential to our economy," said Senator Burns. "When we talk about delivery systems, we talk about the rails. In a state like Montana, it is not only coal, but other products that ship from our state. Anytime that you're in the business of selling wholesale, buying retail, and paying the freight both ways, we feel the effects of rail problems right away. I want to look at the impact of cases where monopoly power exists." 
  Following the partial deregulation of the railroad industry in 1980, a series of mergers led to the rail industry being dominated by four major railroads - Burlington Northern-Santa Fe (BNSF), Union Pacific, CSX, and Norfolk-Southern. Montana is held captive to just one Class I railroad, BNSF, resulting in lack of competition for price and service, and increasing capacity constraints. Recently, a coalition of Montana producers opened discussions with BNSF in attempts to improve the situation. Those negotiations have resulted in reduced rates for eastbound durum, as well as a commitment to invest $8 million in a rail line between Great Falls and Fort Benton. 
  Senator Burns is a leading advocate on rail issues, fighting to bring competition to areas dominated by monopoly power. In April 2005, Senator Burns introduced S. 919, the Railroad Competition Act, a comprehensive proposal that would limit monopolistic abuses of power in captive markets by restricting the major railroads from precluding competition from short-line railroads and reforming the Surface Transportation Board (STB) to provide a workable forum for dispute resolution. Senator Burns' efforts on this issue are strongly supported by a diverse coalition of grassroots groups, including the National Rural Electric Cooperative Association, the National Association of Wheat Growers, and the American Chemistry Council. 
  At today's hearing, David Wilkes, President of Xcel Energy, testified on behalf of Consumers United for Rail Equity (CURE) and the Edison Electric Institute and endorsed Senator Burns' legislation, saying "Congress should enact the comprehensive energy reforms contained in S.919, introduced by Senator Burns."
  In February 2006, the National Association of Regulatory Utility Commissioners (NARUC) voted unanimously in favor of a resolution supporting increased rail competition, further underscoring the seriousness of rail delivery concerns. NARUC testified at today's hearing, highlighting the continued problems with coal delivery, and the impact on consumers. Utility industry estimates project coal deliveries to fall 23 million tons short this year, at a potential cost to consumers of nearly $3 billion. 
  "When utilities can't get coal on a reliable, affordable basis, it is the ratepayers who feel the pinch," Burns said. "When those costs are imposed on working families by a monopoly, I think that Congress must act." 
  Senator Burns has worked for many years to address concerns about monopoly abuses in the rail industry. The issue has gained national momentum, as Senator Burns has authored opinion editorials published in Investor's Business Daily, the Havre Daily News, Rural Montana Magazine, and participated in investigative newspaper articles in the Wall Street Journal, The Hill, and National Journal.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183, matt_mackowiak@burns.senate.gov.
 
 