SEN. BURNS VOTES AGAINST AMNESTY
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R - Mont.) today voted against the immigration bill, which passed the Senate 62-36. The bill now goes to conference with the House to reconcile the different versions of the bill. Immediately before the final passage vote, Senator Burns voted to kill the bill in a cloture vote.
  "I was pleased with many of the border security provisions in this bill, but I cannot, in good conscience, support a bill with so many provisions that provide amnesty to illegal immigrants," said Senator Burns. 
  Although Senator Burns voted against the bill, he won passage, in a voice vote, for an amendment he offered that was based on his Fair and Accurate Representation Act (FARA) of 2006. The amendment demands that the U.S. Census Bureau detail the impact of illegal immigrants on Congressional representation and provide solutions to this problem.
  Other key votes:
  TOUGH BORDER SECURITY PROVISIONS
   #4076 VOTED FOR authorizing the use of the National Guard at the border at the order of a state Governor. Senator Burns supports the President's initiative to send National Guard troops to the southwest border so long as it does not impede Montana's missions during fire season. (Agreed 83-10) 
  #3979 VOTED FOR directing the Secretary of Homeland Security to construct at least 370 miles of triple-layered fence and 500 miles of vehicle barrier at strategic locations along the southwest border. Senator Burns strongly supports this strategic border security effort. (Agreed 83-16)
  #3691 VOTED FOR requiring the Secretary of Homeland Security to certify that the land borders are secure and that enforcement authorizations are met and fully operational before a program to legalize unauthorized aliens can come into effect. Senator Burns believes we must secure the border before we act on the illegal immigrants currently in the country. (Not agreed 40-55)
  COMMON-SENSE POLICY VOTES
   #3985 VOTED FOR preventing aliens from receiving Social Security benefits as a result of illegal work history. Senator Burns believes illegal aliens often steal social security numbers to gain employment and should not be rewarded with Social Security payments. (Tabled 50-49)
  #4064 VOTED FOR (cosponsor) declaring English as the national language of the United States. Senator Burns has long supported efforts to make English the national language. (Agreed 63-34)
  #4073 VOTED AGAINST declaring that English is the common and unifying language of the United States. Senator Burns does not believe this amendment goes far enough and supports efforts to make English the national language. (Agreed 58-39)
   #4136 VOTED FOR ensuring that aliens are unable to collect tax refunds or the Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC) for any year prior to 2006 when they pay their back taxes, as required in the immigration bill. Senator Burns feels that we must ensure that aliens do not benefit from illegal work history. (Agreed to 50-47)
  REMOVING AMNESTY PROVISIONS
   #3963 VOTED FOR striking all earned adjustments in the guest worker provisions of the bill, known as Titles IV and VI. Senator Burns strongly supports this amendment because it would have eliminated amnesty provisions in the bill. (Not agreed 33-66)
   #3965 VOTED FOR defining temporary worker visa in the bill as temporary and not permanent, removing the special path to a green card (and eventual citizenship) for new aliens entering the country. Senator Burns supports removing the path to citizenship for the estimated 200,000 aliens per year that could enter the U.S. as part of the newly created temporary worker program. (Agreed 50-48).
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183, matt_mackowiak@burns.senate.gov.
 
 