SEN. BURNS APPLAUDS DECISION TO RESUME BEEF TRADE BETWEEN U.S., JAPAN
 Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) applauded the recent announcement by U.S. and Japanese officials to resume beef trade between these two countries after a ten-month hiatus. The agreement was reached after months of negotiations to determine the conditions under which the trade will be resumed.  
   "This is great news," said Burns. "Our agriculture industry is safe and secure, and I'm glad we were able to sit down and discuss this issue and come to an agreement that suits both parties. Japan was one of our largest markets before the ban was enacted, and this decision will translate into millions of dollars in increased revenue for our state. Our producers do a great job-I am confident in their abilities to uphold the integrity of this industry, and I'm happy to see this ban lifted." 
   Trade between the two countries will resume following completion of regulatory processes in both countries. A special marketing program will be developed for Japan under which USDA's Agricultural Marketing Service will certify that exported products meet the terms of the agreement. The United States will now be permitted to sell beef and variety meats to Japanese importers from animals below 21 months of age. This marketing program will be evaluated by the countries in July 2005 and modified as appropriate. This evaluation will be based in part on an independent review of the marketing program and the BSE situation conducted by experts from the World Organization for Animal Health (OIE) and other organizations. 
   Japan was the largest market for U.S. beef and products with sales in 2003 before the ban was imposed exceeding $1.7 billion. Exports in total account for well over 10% of the total value of U.S. beef output. U.S. sales to Japan were suspended following the discovery of the one case of BSE from an imported cow on December 23, 2003 in Washington State. 
   For more information, you can visit the United State's Department of Agriculture website at: http://www.usda.gov.
   Contact: Jennifer O'Shea, 202/224-6830.
 
 