SEN. BURNS EMPHASIZES GUARD PREPARATION FOR UPCOMING FOREST FIRE SEASON
  Today, in a Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee hearing, Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) expressed concern regarding the funding of our National Guard forces in Montana as we approach this year's forest fire season. 
  Senator Burns said, "We need to make sure our Guard units are ready for the upcoming fire season and that they have everything they need."
  Senator Burns questioned proposed cuts to the Guard and emphasized his support for funding Guard forces at the same levels with active duty soldiers. In response to questions about the cuts proposed in the Quadrennial Defense Review, General Steven Blum, Chief of the National Guard Bureau, stated, "When you play football, it's nice to be called into the huddle before the play."
  Senator Burns said, "I am concerned that our National Guard is getting short-changed by the active forces. We need to ensure that our Guard and Reserve forces are funded and maintained to do their jobs here at home."
  General Ickes, interim Chief of the Air National Guard, addressed the fact that Guard aircraft like those in the 120th Fighter Squadron at Great Falls cover 100% of the homeland defense mission, and yet the Air Guard only receives 8% of the Air Force budget.
  Senator Burns emphasized that he will work closely with Senator Kit Bond (R - MO) to ensure that the Air Guard receives funding for critical radar upgrades to the fleet of Air Guard F-15's and F-16's, saying Sen. Bond, "is not willing to let our Guard F-15's and F-16's wither and die on the vine to pay for new programs."
  Senator Burns' many years of work with the BRAC process was successful at getting F-15's for the 120th Fighter Squadron to replace the existing F-16's. The Air Force is attempting to re-program $175 million for Active Electronically Scanned Array radars (AESA) into other programs. The F-15 AESA is critical for the homeland defense mission. It will bring the F-15 fleet that will be at Great Falls into the league of the F-22 fighter, and ensure that the Montana Air Guard F-15's will be relevant for the next 15 to 20 years. 
  Senator Burns emphasized his commitment to our Guardsmen, Reservists and their families who have made such heroic sacrifices in the War on Terror, saying, "We need to do everything we can to support these brave men and women and their families. I understand that our business owners are patriotic and want to help, but they have concerns of their own when it comes to running their business. We need to make sure our troops are taken care of and that they have jobs to return to after their deployments."
  Senator Burns is a senior member of the Senate Defense Appropriations and Military Construction Committees and served in the U.S. Marine Corps from 1955-1957.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183, matt_mackowiak@burns.senate.gov.
 
 