SEN. BURNS INTRODUCES BILL TO ENABLE TROOPS SERVING OVERSEAS IN WAR ON TERROR TO COMMUNICATE WITH FAMILY
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.), today introduced the Call Home Act which will remove all federal fees and assessments for international phone calls made from overseas military bases to the United States.  
  The bill also instructs the FCC to evaluate new methods of reducing rates including the deployment of Voice-over Internet Protocol (VoIP), to encourage phone companies to adopt flexible billing for troops and their families, and to seek agreements with foreign governments in reducing international surcharges they impose on international calls. 
  The bill has heavy bipartisan support and is co-sponsored by 34 Senators, 22 Republicans, 11 Democrats and one Independent, including Senators Ted Stevens (R-AK), Daniel Inouye (D-HI), Trent Lott (R-MS), Hillary Clinton (D-NY), Craig Thomas (R-WY), and Jim Jeffords (I-VT). It is also supported by many national military organizations, including The Military Coalition represents 36 organizations and 5.5 million members of the military, both past and present, and their families. The Military Coalition members include the Veterans of Foreign Wars, the Marine Corps League and the Naval Reserve Association. Also, the American Legion has sent a letter of support to the Commerce Committee. The Call Home Act will enable military personnel overseas to maintain close, personal bonds with family members while bravely serving our country.
  Senator Burns said, "Having served overseas myself in Okinawa and Korea, I know how lonely and homesick you can get while serving your country on the other side of the planet. In the 21st Century, communications have shrunk the world when it comes to keeping in touch. Emails have replaced letters and helped maintain more regular and fast contact. But an email can't take the place of a conversation. Hearing the voices and laughs of a loved one and knowing, over the phone, that there is a smile on the other end does wonders for morale. We, as elected representatives, can and should do all we can to maintain and raise the morale of our service men and women fighting in the War on Terror, and the Call Home Act will be a large step in that direction. By removing unnecessary financial hurdles put in place by government imposed taxes and fees, we will make it significantly easier for families serving our nation's interests maintain close contact and keep morale high."
  Senator Burns is a former Marine and a member of the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
 
 