SEN. BURNS CALLS ON SENATE TO PASS HIS SMALL BUSINESS HEALTH BILL
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) today called on the U.S. Senate to pass S. 1955, the Health Insurance Marketplace Modernization and Affordability Act, to decrease costs and increase access to health insurance by small businesses at a press conference with co-sponsors of the bill this morning.  
   The bill will allow small businesses to pool together through associations so they may gain similar market power to that enjoyed by large businesses when it comes to the purchasing of health insurance, thereby lowering costs. Large businesses with many employees have long had an advantage in purchasing health insurance due to the sheer number of employees they have. By leveling the playing field between small and large businesses, S. 1955 will make health insurance more affordable and give more individuals and working families the benefits long associated with working for a large corporation. 
  This is particularly important in a rural state such as Montana where the vast majority of residents are employed by small businesses, all too many of which cannot afford to offer health insurance. And those small businesses that do offer health insurance now will see a decrease in the cost of those plans offered, should they join a pool. The money saved, estimated to be $1,000 per employee, could be used to hire more employees or expand their businesses. This, in turn, would aid in maintaining the robust economy and low unemployment we are currently enjoying - Montana's unemployment rate is 3.4 percent, one of the lowest in the nation. 
  Senator Burns, an original co-sponsor of the legislation along with Senator Mike Enzi (R-WY) and Senator Ben Nelson (D-NE), received a petition from the National Federation of Independent Businesses President Todd Stoddlemyer signed by hundreds of thousands of individual small business owners and employees, including more than 6,000 Montanans, calling on Congress to pass the bill so that they might be able to pool together their resources and offer health insurance to their employees. 
  In a recent op-ed, Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-TN) said, "Such small-business health plans will make insurance more affordable for small businesses. Groups such as the National Association of Realtors, a local farm bureau, or the National Black Chamber of Commerce will find it much easier to offer their members a wide choice of high-quality health plans. As a result, millions of Americans who currently don't have insurance will have access to affordable insurance coverage."
  Senator Burns said, "I couldn't agree with Senator Frist more strongly. The ability of small businesses to pool together to make health insurance more affordable is tremendously important to states like Montana. We don't have a lot of large companies, we have mostly small and family owned businesses that would like to offer health insurance, but simply aren't large enough to have the leverage necessary to lower the cost to an affordable level. This bill will give them that leverage, which will result in more people with health insurance in both rural and urban areas throughout the country. I urge every Senator to join in supporting this important bill. We need to get this done for the American people."
  Senator Burns is a three term U.S. Senator and member of the Senate Committee on Appropriations.
 
 