MONTANA AIR NATIONAL GUARD SURVIVES BRAC
  The 2005 Base Realignment and Closure Committee (BRAC) voted 9-0 today to keep the flying mission of the Montana Air National Guard. Following the recommendations of the Montana Delegation and Great Falls Community, the BRAC Commission will move 15 F-15 aircraft to Great Falls while removing the 15 F-16s currently stationed at Great Falls International Airport.  
   BRAC Commissioner General Lloyd W. "Fig" Newton (USAF, Ret) said "This is a better suit for Montana [replacing the F-16 with the F-15], a better weapon system for that location." 
   "I was pleased to see that the Montana Air National Guard (MANG) flying mission in Great Falls was spared from the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) process," said Senator Conrad Burns. "I had said all along that the Pentagon's initial recommendation to realign the 120th Fighter Wing (FW) was seriously flawed. I am happy to see that the BRAC Commission agreed, and I'm looking forward to seeing the new F-15s, quite possibly the finest weapons system the Air Force has ever flown."
   "These Air Guard recommendations had been extremely controversial all along - I don't think the Department of Defense (DoD) really thought through their decisions. Our state came together well and presented a good plan to the BRAC Commission back in June, which would retain and expand the Air Guard's mission in Great Falls. That, combined with many phone calls and meetings, both before and after the Pentagon released the BRAC recommendations, I think positioned us well." 
   "We now must continue to monitor the Quadrennial Defense Review (QDR) efforts underway to track its impact on Malmstrom Air Force Base (MAFB)." 
   The base closing commission must forward its recommendations to President Bush by September 8. The president can accept the report or return it for changes. If approved, Congress must then reject the report in its entirety within 45 legislative days or it becomes law. 
   Burns testified in front of the BRAC Commission at a hearing in Portland, Oregon earlier this year on behalf of the Montana Air National Guard, along with Senator Max Baucus and Montana National Guard Adjutant General Randy Mosley. He has also held several meetings with Pentagon and BRAC officials regarding the Montana Air National Guard. 
   F-15 resource information: http://www.af.mil/factsheets/factsheet.asp?fsID=101
   Contact: Jennifer O'Shea, 202/224-6830.
 
 