SEN. BURNS INTRODUCES BILL TO ESTABLISH BIPARTISAN BLUE RIBBON COMMISSION TO STUDY LOBBYING REFORM
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) has introduced a bipartisan bill calling for lobbying reform, call the "Commission to Strengthen Confidence in Congress Act of 2006." The bill, also co-sponsored by Sen. Norm Coleman (R-MN.) and Sen. Ben Nelson (D-NE), will create a bipartisan, blue ribbon commission composed of 5 Republicans and 5 Democrats who are not currently in government service in any way. The panel's mission will be to:  
   1. Evaluate and report the effectiveness of current Ethics requirements, if penalties are enforced and sufficient and make recommendations for new penalties. 
   2. Weigh the need for improved ethical conduct with the need for lawmakers to have access to expertise on public policy issues. 
   3. Determine and report minimum standards relating to official travel for Members of Congress and staff. 
   4. Evaluate the range of gifts given to Members of Congress and staff, and determine and report the effects on public policy and make recommendations for limits on gifts. 
   5. Evaluate and report the effectiveness and transparency of disclosure laws and recommendations for improvements. 
   6. Assess and report the effectiveness of the ban on Member of Congress and staff from lobbying their former office for one year and make recommendations for altering the time frame. 
   7. Make recommendations to improve the process whereby Members of Congress can earmark priorities in Appropriations Acts, while still preserving Congressional power of the purse. 
   8. Evaluate the use of public and privately funded travel by Members of Congress and staff, violations of Congressional rules governing travel and make recommendations on limiting travel. 
   9. Investigate and report to Congress on its findings, conclusions, and any recommendations for reform. 
   Senator Burns said, "The bipartisan bill is intended to address the issue of lobbying reform, not score political points. Republicans and Democrats have to work together to reassure the American public that their elected representatives are serious about cleaning up this mess and not just paying lip-service to the issue in an election year. The panel will take the issue out of the hands of politicians and, just like the 9/11 commission, offer solutions without the taint of accusations of partisanship or self interest." 
   This is the second bill Senator Burns has introduced to address this issue. Senator Burns is also cosponsor of another bipartisan bill, S. 2128, the Lobbying Transparency and Accountability Act of 2005, co-sponsored with Senator John McCain (R-AZ) and Senator Joseph Lieberman (D-CT), which will offer significant changes to lobbying rules. The Lobbying Transparency and Accountability Act will require faster and more public disclosure of the activities of lobbyists. 
   Senator Burns said, "This will shine a bright light on the lobbying industry as well as allow the public to see who is giving what to and doing what for their elected representatives. The action of the Lobbying Transparency and Accountability Act will complement the creation of the Commission. Quick and complete disclosure, along with studying what other fixes should be enacted, will serve to put the lobbying community on notice that lying to your clients is not acceptable, and Congress is not for sale."
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/224-6830.
 
 