SEN. BURNS ISSUES STATEMENT ON IRAQI PRIME MINISTER MALIKI'S ADDRESS TO JOINT SESSION
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R - Mont.) issued a statement following the address of Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al Maliki to a Joint Session of Congress: 
   "Today's address to a joint session of Congress by the democratically elected Prime Minister of Iraq is an historic occasion and reminds all of us why we are fighting in Iraq. The naysayers said that Iraq was not ready for democracy. Prime Minister al Maliki's address has proven the doubters wrong, serving as a powerful example of the great goal of democracy and the potential for Iraq to continue as a burgeoning democracy in the Middle East.
   "Just because we welcome a foreign leader to address a Joint Session does not require complete agreement on every international issue. While I strongly disagree with the comments Prime Minister al Maliki made about Israel yesterday, I welcome his right to make them in an environment which respects and reveres free speech in the United States, a right we hope will continue to gain progress throughout the Middle East.
   "Iran and Syria continue to spread violence throughout the Middle East using their proxies: Hezbollah in Lebanon and al Qaeda in Iraq. Hezbollah, with support from Iran and Syria, is directly responsible for the current crisis in the Middle East. I entirely support Israel's right to defend itself and its people from rocket attacks and the constant threat of terrorism from terrorist organizations.
   "Prime Minister Maliki reaffirmed that Iraq is the central fight in the war on terror and we must win. Going forward, we will continue to support the Iraqi government in its efforts to fight the insurgency and increasingly assume control of its security. Last week, our coalition forces turned over the responsibility for the security of the Muthanna province to Iraqi security forces. We are training hundreds of thousands of Iraqi security forces and we want Iraq to assume increasing control of their security as soon as possible.
   "Prime Minister al Maliki's address today sent a shockwave around the world that Iraq's democratically elected leader is welcome in the United States, is a leader in the world, and will play a vital role in the future of the Middle East."
   Senator Burns served in the United States Marine Corps from 1955 - 1957 and is a senior member of the Senate Defense and Military Construction Subcommittees.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183, matt_mackowiak@burns.senate.gov.
 
 