SEN. BURNS INTRODUCES CROW TRIBE LAND RESTORATION ACT
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) today introduced legislation that will begin the process of consolidating fractionated land in Indian Country. Entitled the Crow Tribe Land Restoration Act, this bill will establish a program on behalf of the Crow Tribe to explore options for addressing this difficult process for Tribes.  
   This legislation will allow the Crow Tribe to purchase fractionated land interests from willing Crow Tribal members and to assume management of these interests. Reacquisition of the Crow Tribe's land base will allow the Tribe the opportunity for successful agricultural efforts that will generate critical revenue for the Tribe and decrease dependence on federal funds. This bill also ensures that individual land owners are kept whole, by giving them an asset that they own independently, in exchange for their interest in fractionated lands. 
   Addressing the fractionated land ownership problem on the Crow Reservation results in a significant reduction of the overall problem nationwide since ten percent, or 1.1 million acres, of a total of 11 million acres of individually owned Indian trust lands nationally are on the Crow Indian Reservation. Consolidation of these fractionated land interests into the ownership of the Crow Tribe and the purchase of fee lands will allow the Tribe to reassume control of lands within the Reservation and use the lands to the fullest benefit of Tribal members. Ninety-five percent of the lands on the Crow Reservation generate revenue each year, which will be committed to repay costs of the land acquisitions. 
   "Something must be done to address land fractionation - having one parcel of land owned by 50 different people simply prevents the land from generating any meaningful benefit to individual owners or to the Tribe. This legislation is not a one-size-fits-all fix, but rather a grassroots effort on the part of one Montana Tribe to explore solutions to a problem that limits economic development for their people. I am proud to introduce this bill today, and I look forward to its consideration by the full Senate."
 
 