SEN. BURNS ANNOUNCES $2.6 MILLION GRANT TO BLACKFOOT CHALLENGE
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R - Mont.) today announced the U.S. Department of the Interior (DOI) has awarded a Habitat Conservation Plan (HCP) grant to the Blackfoot Challenge, located in Lewis and Clark, Missoula and Powell counties, a $2.699 million federal grant for conservation easement acquisition. The grants were awarded through the Cooperative Endangered Species Conservation Fund. 
  "I've long supported the Blackfoot Challenge and this award brings them infinitely closer to being able to celebrate the completion of its larger conservation project," said Senator Burns. "The Blackfoot Challenge is a continuing success story, with ranchers able to purchase large tracts of adjoining intact lands for grazing thereby continuing the long tradition of agriculture in the Valley. The funding will enable rural lifestyle and history of stewardship to endure while fulfilling the intent of the HCP."
  The Blackfoot Easement Project, according to DOI, provides "crucial connectivity for many imperiled wildlife species including native bull trout, westslope cutthroat trout and mountain whitefish." Intrinsic in the system are "the imperiled grizzly bear, gray wolf, Canada lynx, trumpeter swan, bald eagle, and Columbian sharp-tailed grouse."
  "This funding is a huge boost for the Blackfoot Community Project and for conserving important fish and wildlife habitat on private lands," said Jamie Williams, state director of The Nature Conservancy for Montana. "We deeply appreciate receiving this grant from the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, an important partner in this project. We're also grateful for the ongoing solid support by Senator Conrad Burns and the Montana Congressional delegation."
  "Our ability to successfully conserve habitat for imperiled species depends on long-term partnerships and voluntary landowner participation," said U.S. Secretary of the Interior Dirk Kempthorne. "These grants provide the means for States to work with landowners and communities to conserve habitat and foster conservation stewardship efforts for future generations."
  Section 6 of the Endangered Species Act authorizes states to use grants to work with private landowners, conservation groups and other agencies to initiate conservation planning efforts and acquire and protect habitat to support the conservation of threatened and endangered species. 
   Senator Burns is the Chairman of the Senate Interior Appropriations Subcommittee, which funds the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183, matt_mackowiak@burns.senate.gov; Tana Koppel, 406/388-7515, 406/459-6561.
 
 