SEN. BURNS APPLAUDS AGREEMENT ON SOFTWOOD LUMBER BETWEEN U.S., CANADA
  Today, Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) expressed his support for an agreement between the U.S. and Canada on the long-standing trade dispute over softwood lumber. For years, U.S. industry has been fighting against an influx of subsidized Canadian lumber. Softwood lumber, a product which has become a key feature of the failure of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), makes no provision for U.S. court review of any decisions made by a NAFTA panel. The so-called Chapter 19 dispute resolution process within NAFTA gives final authority to these NAFTA panels, which have routinely decided against U.S. interests, leaving U.S. producers with no recourse.  
  Senator Burns, who voted against NAFTA, applauded efforts by the U.S. and the newly-elected Canadian government to resolve this issue.
  Senator Burns said, "I've been working on resolving this issue for many years, along with our trade officials. I am very pleased this agreement has been reached, in the spirit of stronger bipartisan relations between our two countries. I applaud both President Bush and Prime Minister Harper for reaching this historic agreement. Though we've seen some mill closures in Montana due to these unfair trade practices, we hope they are now reached an end with this agreement today."
  This agreement comes the same day as the deadline for the U.S. to file an appeal to the latest NAFTA panel ruling against U.S. interests, and one day before a softwood roundtable Senator Burns had scheduled in Missoula, MT with local mill operators. As a result of these positive developments, Senator Burns has cancelled the meeting, citing today's success as a sorely needed remedy for Montana. Mills in Montana that have shut down during the past several years will see some positive benefits from the agreement. Since the initiation of the trade dispute, the U.S. has collected almost $5 billion in tariffs from the Canadians, and as a result of the agreement reached today, the U.S. businesses who have been a part of the ongoing challenge will receive approximately 20% of the duties collected, and the remainder will be returned to the Canadians. 
  Senator Burns is Chairman of the Senate Interior Appropriations Committee, and a senior member of both the Energy and Natural Resources Committee and the Agriculture Appropriations Subcommittee.
   AUDIO CLIP: http://burns.senate.gov/media/burns_softwood-042706.mp3.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183, matt_mackowiak@burns.senate.gov.
 
 