SENS. BURNS, ROCKEFELLER, DORGAN INTRODUCE LEGISLATION TO PROTECT RAIL CUSTOMERS
  Sens. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.), Jay Rockefeller (D-WV), and Byron Dorgan (D-ND) today introduced a bill to combat monopolistic practices faced by agriculture producers and manufacturers who ship their product via rail. Since the railroad industry was partially deregulated in 1980, the industry has consolidated from over 40 major railroads to seven, four of which handle 90% of the nation's rail traffic. The Railroad Competition Act of 2005 was introduced to help limit the impact of railroad monopolies on captive shippers-rail customers who don't have access to rail competition.  
   "Currently in Montana, Burlington Northern Santa-Fe (BNSF) is essentially the only railroad serving rail shippers," said Burns. "Our rail customers pay a premium rate to move their product and with that, subsidize the lower rates in areas where there is competition. I'm pleased with the service provided by BNSF, and consider them a great asset to our state, but they're the only game in town. This legislation would give our producers what they deserve-a level playing field in order to compete on the global commodities market." 
   "In West Virginia, our manufacturers have struggled to be competitive because they simply don't have choices when it comes to shipping their goods," said Rockefeller. "The bottom line is that the railroads have refused to negotiate fairly, leaving manufacturers at the mercy of their exorbitant prices. That's not the intent of the law, and that's why we're introducing this legislation. Today we are saying that we intend to bring fairness - finally - to a system that has devastated manufacturers both in West Virginia and across the country. Our railroads must be willing to negotiate in good faith." 
   "Like so many industries, the railroad industry has consolidated in recent years," Dorgan said. "The end result is that rail monopolies engage in price-gouging practices that hurt both shippers and consumers," Dorgan said. "My hope is that this bill brings some much-needed competition to the marketplace, and allows farmers and others who need to move their product some relief from the exorbitant rail rates they're paying today." 
   The Railroad Competition Act of 2005 would clarify existing laws and direct the Surface Transportation Board to ensure effective competition among rail carriers at origins and destinations; maintain reasonable rates in the absence of effective competition; and maintain consistent and efficient rail transportation service for rail shippers, including the timely provision of cars. The bill would also establish a 'final offer' arbitration of rail rate disputes between shippers and the railroad companies. 
   "Relief from high freight rates is long overdue, as Montana farmers are the most captive of captive shippers in the country", said Keith Schott, Montana Grain Growers Association president from Broadview. "We applaud Senator Burns' leadership on this issue and will continue to work closely with him and other legislators to ensure this bill becomes reality." 
   "I applaud Senator Burns' leadership on the Rail Competition issue," said Terry Whiteside of Billings, Montana based Whiteside & Associates and Chairman of the Alliance for Rail Competition. "Senator Burns has put together a strong bi-partisan group of Senators to advance the cause of competition in the railroad industry. It will further serve to enhance the economic viability of the nation's railroads by focusing needed resources on railroad infrastructure. We, in Montana, are like the rest of the nation, in need a strong, innovative and competitive railroad system to allow us to remain competitive in the market place," 
   "Many of the chemical companies in West Virginia are negatively impacted by captive rail. The West Virginia Manufacturers Association welcomes legislation that provides for a more open and competitive marketplace for shipping our products," said Allan Fowler, Chairman of the Chemical Industry Committee for the West Virginia Manufacturers Association. 
   "Legislation is surely necessary to rebalance the interests of shippers and railroads and we're happy to see that Senator Dorgan is again one of the leading proponents of finally getting something done," said Steve Strege, executive vice president of the North Dakota Grain Dealers Association. 
   In addition, the legislation also increases ten-fold the availability of funds for railroad infrastructure investment. Insufficient investment into rail infrastructure results in capacity and service problems that worsen already difficult conditions 
   Co-sponsors of this bill include Senators: Craig (R-ID), Dayton (D-MN), Vitter (R-LA), Thune (R-SD), Coleman (R-MN) Johnson (D-SD) and Baucus (D-Mont.). 
   The Railroad Competition Act of 2005 is supported by a broad coalition, including the Alliance for Rail Competition, Consumers United for Rail Equity, the American Chemistry Council, the National Association of Wheat Growers, the Edison Electric Institute, the American Public Power Association, the National Rural Electric Cooperative Association, the Portland Cement Association, the Paper & Forestry Industry Transportation Committee, the American Plastics Council, the Glass Producers Transportation Council, the National Barley Growers Association, the Agriculture Ocean Transportation Coalition, the National Petrochemical and Refiners Association, the Western Coal Traffic League, and the Louisiana Chemical Association. 
   Burns, Rockefeller and Dorgan are members of the Senate Commerce Surface Transportation and Merchant Marine Subcommittee. 
   Comments from Senator Burns regarding his legislation will be available via satellite feed today at 3:45 EST and 1:45 MT on: 
   Galaxy 3 
  Transponder 7-H 
  Downlink 3840 
   They will also be available on the web at www.burns.senate.gov, and via telephone at 1-800-545-1267, box 333.
 
 