SEN. BURNS HOLDS HEARING TO EXAMINE FAIR RATINGS ACT
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) held a Commerce, Science and Transportation hearing today to examine the Fairness, Accuracy, Inclusivity, and Responsiveness in Ratings (FAIR Ratings) Act. Burns introduced the FAIR Ratings Act earlier this month to affirm the basic concept that Nielsen, and any other future competitor who might come to equal acceptance by the industry, must receive accreditation for its ratings services from an independent source before they become the standard of trade.  
   Forty years ago, Congressional investigations into the accuracy of television ratings resulted in the creation of the Media Rating Council (MRC), an industry organization that established minimum standards for ratings accuracy and accredits ratings services. But that system is today being frustrated by the dominant provider of television ratings, Nielsen Media Research, and Nielsen's reluctance to submit to the authority of the MRC. 
   "This bill is about accountability," said Burns. "It is about making sure that the system in place is fair and accurate for all Americans. It would compel Nielsen to come to the table with the auditors at the Media Rating Council, and accept their changes if minimum accuracy standards are not met. That is what I care about. That is why I got involved in this debate, and I believe I have constructed legislation that will make sure this is the case, today and in the future." 
   Burns added: "Since Nielsen would not agree to the private industry process voluntarily, we have no choice but to step in with this simple, direct, and minimally intrusive legislation. This bill is about restoring the authority that the Congress clearly intended the industry to have to ensure minimum standards for ratings accuracy." 
   Witnesses in today's hearing includes George Ivie, Executive Director and CEO, Media Rating Council; Susan Whiting, President and CEO, Nielsen Media Research; Ceril Shagrin, Executive Vice President for Research, Univision; Pat Mullen, CEO Tribune Broadcasting; Kathy Crawford, President Local Broadcast, MindShare Worldwide; Gale Metzger, former CEO, SMART Media.
   Contact: Jennifer O'Shea, 202/224-6830.
 
 