SEN. BURNS ANNOUNCES EDUCATION GRANTS FOR MONTANA TECH, MSU-B, FORT BELKNAP
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R - Mont.) announced today that several educational institutions in Montana have been selected to receive funding through the TRIO Talent Search Program. 
   Montana Technical Institute in Butte will receive $220,000 in financial assistance over five years, which is expected to benefit 800 participants in the program. Montana State University-Billings (MSU-B) will receive the same amount, $220,000, but for one year and it is expected to benefit 600 students. The Fort Belknap Indian Community in Harlem will receive $308,033 for one year, which will support 850 students. Altogether, Montana will receive $1.3 million through these grant awards.
   "I am pleased to support this federal program to give Montana kids an opportunity and the little extra advice they might need to get going in the world," said Senator Burns. "I am a big believer in ownership, and ownership starts with college and career training, which this program will bring to Montana Tech, MSU-Billings and Fort Belknap."
   The Talent Search Program uses a wide variety of approaches in an effort to ensure that gifted individuals from disadvantaged backgrounds are given every possible opportunity for success in higher education. Counseling in areas of academics, finances, and career options is provided by the program along with assistance in preparing for college entrance exams, advice for choosing a college or university, and guidance in completing applications for college admission and financial aid.
   One dimension of the program focuses on rehabilitation of troubled adolescents by encouraging those who have dropped out of high school to reenter the educational system. For students struggling to perform well in class, tutoring services are also provided to ensure that no student is forced to sacrifice his education because the course work is too difficult.
   Senator Burns is a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, which funds the U.S. Department of Education.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183, matt_mackowiak@burns.senate.gov.
 
 