SEN. BURNS INCLUDES FRONT LANGUAGE IN INTERIOR BILL
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont), Chairman of the Interior Appropriations Subcommittee, included language in today's bill that would prevent any new oil and gas leases from being approved within the confines of federal land along the Rocky Mountain Front. 
  "It's clear this is a critical area for habitat, recreation, agriculture, and just to appreciate the majesty of Montana," said Burns. "This language will prevent any new leases from being approved, and help protect the area even further. I've heard from groups across the spectrum, agriculturalists, conservationists, recreation folks, Tribal leaders, community officials, not to mention the everyday Montanans who are concerned about this area. I think this strikes a common-sense balance that benefits all parties involved."
  The Burns language will accomplish the following:
  * Prevent any new leasing for oil, gas, or hard rock mining in all of the U.S. Forest Service land within the Rocky Mountain District of the Lewis and Clark National Forest and contiguous parcels controlled by the Bureau of Land Management. The two major areas affected by this law will be the Badger-Two Medicine and Blackleaf Canyon.
  * Existing leases will not be affected, but if they expire, are traded, donated or purchased back either by the Government or a third-party group, the area will become exempt from re-leasing.
  The genesis of this language dates back to the summer of 2004 when Senator Burns met with representatives of "Save the Front" in his Great Falls office. At that time he encouraged them to explore using private dollars to purchase the leases from developers. In additional discussions with interested parties, they expressed concern about re-issuing of the leases once they've been purchased by private groups. Burns felt since these private groups had done their part and put their money where their mouth is, he would introduce language to protect their efforts.
  The language to protect the Rocky Mountain Front was included in today's draft of the Fiscal Year 2007 Interior Appropriations Bill. The bill is expected to be approved by the full Senate Appropriations Committee this week, and then will go on to the full Senate. Once approved by the Senate, it will go to a joint House-Senate conference committee, then back to the respective houses for final passage prior to being signed into law by the President.
  The Rocky Mountain Front language is just one of numerous sections of the Interior Appropriations Bill that have a positive impact on Montana.
   Contact: James Pendleton, 406/861-2637, james_pendleton@burns.senate.gov.
 
 