SEN. BURNS SECURES ANOTHER VICTORY FOR RAIL SHIPPERS
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R - Mont.) continued his fight for rail reform today, expanding access for small businesses to the rate relief procedures and asking tough questions of the Administration's nominee for Chairman of the Surface Transportation Board (STB). 
   The Senate Small Business Committee approved a provision today, championed by Senator Burns, to expand the role of the Small Business National Ombudsman, a senior executive in the Small Business Administration (SBA), as a part of the SBA reauthorization package. The new authorities will allow the Ombudsman to assist small shippers in bringing cases or complaints to the STB. 
   "We are continuing to deliver victories for shippers in our uphill battle with the railroads," said Senator Burns. "We want a healthy railroad, but it is clear that shippers across the country lack an adequate forum for dispute resolution for problems with rates and service. In Montana, we are dealing with a monopoly railroad, and shippers are feeling the effects of anti-competitive practices that seem to be growing. With this amendment, our shippers have another place to go to receive help in dealing with the STB."
   According to the SBA, the National Ombudsman "receives complaints and comments from small business concerns and acts as a 'trouble shooter' between them and federal agencies. Small business comments are forwarded to federal agencies for a high level review and federal agencies are requested to consider the fairness of their action."
   Today in a Senate Commerce Committee nomination hearing, Senator Burns directed pointed questions at Charles "Chip" Nottingham, the administration's nominee for STB Chairman. In the hearing, Senator Burns said, "Previous nominees have sat right in that same chair that you're sitting in right now and promised this Committee they'd get these small rate case procedures in place down at the Surface Transportation Board and it's yet to come. They've made those commitments about transparency and improved procedures and enhanced competition - a whole host of promises. You tell me why you're going to be any different than the ones that preceded you."
   Prior to Nottingham's confirmation hearing, Senator Burns requested that the nominee to meet with a variety of national and Montana shippers, to understand the seriousness of captive shipper issues. Those meetings gave Montana groups the opportunity to share their concerns about the state of the rail industry today. Burns has also met with Nottingham to personally share his views that the STB should focus more on enhancing competition in the industry. 
   Last week, Senator Burns successfully included an amendment to the fiscal year 2007 Transportation Appropriations bill that places significant pressure on the STB to curb anti-competitive practices in the railroad industry and expand access for small shippers. Senator Burns is the leader of S. 919, the Rail Competition Act, which will restrict the ability of the Class I railroads to limit competition through anti-competitive practices and reform the Surface Transportation Board to make it a viable forum for dispute resolution. On June 21, the Senate Commerce Committee held a hearing on the legislation. In addition, the Senate Energy and Natural Resources has conducted hearings into rail delivery problems, as has the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). The provisions included in the Transportation Bill by Senator Burns are based on S. 919. 
   Senator Burns is a senior member of the Senate Small Business Committee and the Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee, which has jurisdiction over S. 919 and the STB.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183, matt_mackowiak@burns.senate.gov.
 
 