ICBM BILL INTRODUCED
  Sen. Conrad Burns, along with fellow Sens. Kent Conrad (D-ND), Byron Dorgan (D-ND), Mike Enzi (R-WY), Max Baucus (D-MT), and Craig Thomas (R-WY) introduced a bill today, which states that it is the policy of the United States to continue to transition to an ICBM force with 500 missiles each equipped with a single nuclear warhead.  
   "It is critical to U.S. national security that we maintain the balanced nuclear force structure envisioned by the 2001 Nuclear Proliferation Review and codified in the Moscow Treaty," said Burns. "The strategic nuclear forces that deterred Soviet aggression and kept the limited conflicts of the Cold War era from escalating to global annihilation continue to play a critical role in deterring aggression and dissuading new near-peer competitors. There are still threats out there, which our ICBMs continue to successfully deter, and I feel that our land-based leg is more important to our country's national security than ever. Malmstrom AFB and the great people there continue to play an important role in ensuring the safety and security of families across this country." 
   Last month, Burns and other missile state Senators signed a letter to Secretary Rumsfeld urging him to continue support for the Nuclear Posture Review's conclusion that 500 nuclear-armed Minutemen III missiles will be necessary through at least 2020. Letters were also sent to the Chairmen of the Senate Committees on Armed Services and Defense Appropriations, which are the committees responsible for the policy and funding of these issues. 
   The bill introduced states the following: 
   Consistent with warhead levels agreed to in the Moscow Treaty, the United States is permanently changing Minuteman III ICBMs from their prior capability to carry up to three independent reentry vehicles to a single reentry vehicle system, a process known as downloading. 
   Through the downloading process and the elimination of the MX missile, the United States is now transitioning to a land-based ICBM force of 500 Minuteman III missiles, each equipped with a single nuclear warhead. 
   A series of Department of Defense studies of United States strategic forces has confirmed the need for 500 single warhead Minuteman III missiles, including the 1993 Nuclear Posture Review, the 2001 Nuclear Posture Review, and an ongoing assessment by retired General Larry Welch. 
   In a potential nuclear crisis it is important that United States' nuclear weapons systems be configured so as to discourage other nations from making a first strike, and downloading Minuteman III missiles further reduces the likelihood of any country preemptively attacking America's ICBM force. 
   The ICBM force structure is currently being considered as part of the Department of Defense's deliberations for the Quadrennial Defense Review.
   Contact: Jennifer O'Shea, 202/224-6830.
 
 