SEN. BURNS FIGHTS TO COMPENSATE RADIATION VICTIMS
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) today reacted to the National Academy of Sciences report release regarding the health effects of nuclear bomb tests that were carried out at the Nevada Test Site in the 1950s and 1960s. In Montana, individuals from roughly 15 counties have been impacted by the radiation from these tests which were caused by radioactive Iodine being blasted into the atmosphere and carried north to Montana where it settled on the ground and the food and water supply.  
   "According to the study, Montanans at the time were exposed to the highest dosages of radiation of any state in the country as a result of this nuclear testing - even higher than folks in Nevada," said Burns. "And right now, Montanans are not eligible for compensation under the Radiation Exposure Compensation Act (RECA). Our folks have been hit the hardest from this and their pain and suffering has been completely ignored. I am committed to working with my Senate colleagues to ensure that folks in these communities become eligible for compensation under RECA." 
   The Radiation Exposure Compensation Act was passed in 1990, which established the Radiation Exposure Compensation Trust Fund for claims for injuries and death due to exposure from the Nevada testing. Currently, it only offers compensation to people who were living in Utah, Nevada, Arizona, Colorado, and New Mexico at the time of the testing; it does not include victims who were living in Montana. However, prior studies have noted that the following 15 counties have been affected by this radiation, and have seen increased cases of thyroid cancer due to the testing in Nevada: Meagher, Broadwater, Beaverhead, Jefferson, Powell, Judith Basin, Madison, Fergus, Gallatin, Petroleum, Lewis and Clark, Blaine, Silver Bow, Chouteau, and Deer Lodge. 
   While the national average of people affected by thyroid cancer has remained steady over the past 30 years, the rate reported in Montana has increased steadily. In 1980, Montana had a rate of thyroid cancer 6.2 times the national average. In 1990, that rate had increased to 10.8 times the national average and in 2000 the rate of reported thyroid cancer in Montana was almost 18 times the national average. 
   "It is clear that Montana has been wrongfully neglected and these victims deserve both an apology and compensation from the U.S. government - it is proven that these nuclear bomb tests are still causing havoc in our communities today, and it's about time we do something about it. I will be working with my colleagues to help compensate folks in Montana who have been affected by this tragedy."
   Contact: Jennifer O'Shea, 202/224-6830.
 
 