SEN. BURNS ANNOUNCES BILL TO ENSURE COMPLIANCE WITH DAM SAFETY LAWS
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) introduced legislation this week, S. 2633, to provide the water users and owners of dams in the Bitterroot National Forest an efficient means to access their reservoirs and dams along existing trails and roads. Access is needed to perform maintenance, ensure compliance with safety regulations and inspections, and conduct normal dam operations. 
  Senator Burns said, "With this legislation, water rights are protected, agriculture operations are sustained with a stable irrigation source, and the environment is improved. It's a win for all Montanans." 
  S. 2633 is designed to resolve a long standing conflict over access to the dams, reservoirs and other structures needed by the water users to exercise their water rights. It comes after many years of discussion and research between water users and the U.S. Forest Service. 
  Efficient access is critical to keeping the dams safe and useable. High elevation dams were built to facilitate the use of water rights for ranchers and farmers in the Bitterroot Valley. These water rights and dams were in place before the Bitterroot National Forest and Selway Bitterroot Wilderness were designated. At the high elevation location of these dams, there may be as little as two months each year when inspections and needed maintenance can be accomplished. To complete the work in this narrow timeframe, water users need efficient access to the dams. 
   Water Cooperative counsel Tonya Bumbarger said, "We appreciate Senator Burns introducing this legislation. This bill acknowledges the important benefits provided by these water storage reservoirs to the Bitterroot National Forest and valley below, including recreation, stable stream flows, flood control, improved water quality, aquatic life, groundwater recharge and the preservation of open space." The Water Cooperative is comprised of dam and reservoir owners in the Bitterroot Valley and exists to address and resolve issues common to dam and reservoir owners located within the Bitterroot National Forest.
  S. 2633 has been referred to the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources, of which Senator Burns is a member. Senator Burns is serving his third term as a U.S. Senator.
 
 