SEN. BURNS TAKES LEAD ON VETERAN'S ISSUES
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) announced his support for an amendment to the Supplemental Appropriations bill that will add a much needed $430 million in funding to the Veteran's Affairs health care system.  
  The money is to be used to enhance and expand the mental health and readjustment services for veterans returning from duty in the War on Terror, out reach to returning veterans making them aware of the services available to them, and to cover general funding shortfalls throughout the VA system. The amendment will provide our returning veterans the services they deserve. 
  The amendment follows on the heels of other legislation Senator Burns has introduced to aid our nation's service men and women. 
  Senator Burns has also introduced an amendment to the Supplemental Appropriations bill that would establish the Interim Voting Assistance System that would allow local governments to upload military absentee ballots to a secure Department of Defense server where soldiers could download, print, fill out and return by mail, saving a significant amount of time over the current system. By streamlining overseas military voting we will make it significantly easier for our service men and women to exercise their right to vote while protecting all of our rights in the War on Terror. 
  Also this week, Senator Burns introduced the Call Home Act that will remove all federal fees and assessments for international phone calls made from overseas military bases to the United States. The Call Home Act will enable military personnel overseas to maintain close, personal bonds with family members while bravely serving our country while saving them money. The bill has the support of The Military Coalition which represents 36 organizations and 5.5 million members of the military, both past and present, and their families. The Military Coalition members include the Veterans of Foreign Wars, the Marine Corps League and the Naval Reserve Association. The American Legion has also sent a letter in support of the bill. 
  Senator Burns said, "I have always fought for veterans, and I always will. I'm a veteran myself, so I feel a special bond with our service men and women. I will never allow our country to renege on the promises made to our military personnel. Promises made to them in regards to their mental and physical health will be kept as long as I have anything to say about it." 
  "The right to vote is as fundamental to our freedoms as free speech, but all too often our military serving overseas have burdensome and sometimes insurmountable hurdles to climb in order to exercise that right," said Senator Burns. "Our service men and women should not have to fight a bureaucracy to exercise their right to vote while fighting to protect our rights." 
  Of the Call Home Act, Senator Burns said, "We, as elected representatives, can and should do all we can to maintain and raise the morale of our service men and women fighting in the War on Terror, and the Call Home Act will be a large step in that direction. By removing unnecessary financial hurdles put in place by government imposed taxes and fees, we will make it significantly easier for families serving our nation's interests maintain close contact and keep morale high."
 
 