SEN. BURNS: ASBESTOS LEGISLATION IS ANYTHING BUT FAIR FOR LIBBY CLAIMANTS
  Today, the Senate Judiciary Committee met to discuss the Fairness in Asbestos Injury Resolution (FAIR) Act of 2005, legislation to create a $140 billion Asbestos Trust Fund for those suffering from asbestos-related diseases. Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) was disappointed to learn that the provisions as they relate to Libby were insufficient as included in S. 852, and were different from earlier drafts of the bill which had offered substantive relief for Libby claimants. He voiced his concerns in a letter sent today to Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Arlen Specter (R-PA).  
   During the Committee action today, Sen. Diane Feinstein (D-CA) offered an amendment to strike the Libby-specific language and extend the Level IV rewards to those that have claims against companies that have been the subject of either criminal indictments or convictions. The proposal would significantly expand the class of individuals able to recover in the Level IV category. "The fate of the Libby provision is up in the air," Burns said. "The provision missed the mark when the bill was introduced, and as a result of the Committee's action today, it needs to be significantly redrafted." Senator Feinstein raised concerns that the Libby provision as written was unconstitutional. Senator Specter committed to resolving this issue in such a way for the Libby provision to pass constitutional muster. 
   Burns has worked closely with Chairman Specter throughout the drafting process, including provisions recognizing Libby's tremolite asbestos problems as well as creating an opportunity for Libby residents to set up a health care fund that would not diminish the amount of their recovery under the Trust Fund. Under the bill, any healthcare funds are not considered as "collateral source compensation," and do not play a factor in the amount someone may receive under the Fund. 
   "I won't support a bill that doesn't include coverage for Libby claimants," Burns said. "This bill has a lot of moving parts to it, which were adequate in earlier drafts but as introduced recently and considered in the Judiciary Committee, they were very different." Burns has worked closely with Libby residents as well as their legal representatives, who estimate that under the current provision, 80% of Libby residents will be excluded from the Trust Fund. 
   S. 852, the "Fairness in Asbestos Injury Resolution Act of 2005," was introduced on April 19, 2005 by Senator Specter and cosponsored by Senators Leahy (D-VT), Hatch (R-UT), Feinstein (D-CA), Grassley (R-IA), DeWine(R-OH), Baucus (D-MT) and Voinovich (R-OH), and was considered in the Senate Judiciary Committee on April 28, 2005. 
   A copy of the letter to Chairman Specter is included below. 
   April 28, 2005 
   The Honorable Arlen Specter 
  Chairman 
  Senate Judiciary Committee 
  711 Hart Senate Office Building 
  Washington, DC 20510 
   Dear Chairman Specter, 
   I would like to first thank you for all of your work on the Fairness in Asbestos Injury Resolution (FAIR) Act of 2005. Many provisions in the bill have been discussed and improved, and I appreciate your willingness already to include several provisions in the bill at my suggestion relating to the particular circumstances in Libby, Montana. 
   With that said, I would like to encourage you to take a close look at provisions and their impact on this small Montana community. While the sheer magnitude of the Trust Fund is measured at $140 billion, I remain concerned that those suffering from asbestos-related diseases will still not be able to recover. As a result of the markup today, I know that our colleagues have significant concerns with the language in the bill relating to Libby, and I want you to know I am committed to working this out to see this through-my commitment remains unwavering to you to get the folks in Libby some relief. 
   An example of the potential problem is present in the provisions relating to Libby, Montana. As we have gone through several drafts of the legislation, the provision I had initially championed that was included in an earlier draft has been changed dramatically. I worked closely with the community and their legal representation to ensure that we could craft a meaningful solution for them, but as the bill stands now, that provision does not achieve the solution I had hoped for. According to some estimates, S. 852 as introduced would leave out approximately 80% of Libby claimants. 
   With all due respect, Mr. Chairman, my top priority for asbestos reform legislation is making sure those in Libby, Montana who are truly sick receive some comfort. Closure comes in a variety of forms for different people, and while there is no consensus in the community that a Trust Fund is the solution, I will continue to do what I can to make sure that the solution reached is a meaningful one for everyone. 
   Libby, Montana is unique from any other town in the country. Nowhere else has asbestos become such a pervasive problem, found everywhere in town from the community boat dock, skating rink, and high school track, not to mention the high number of homes and businesses containing the deadly insulation. 
   I hope I can continue to work with you as this legislation moves forward to craft provisions that will truly help the community. Once this legislation has moved from the headlines and into the statute books, I worry that those lingering asbestos problems, which have been latent for so long, will only continue to do harm to the community's young people in the coming years. Now I know the Trust Fund will only have a limited life span, and may end before all of the fully-realized asbestos cases in Libby are diagnosed. For those who may be diagnosed in the future after the Fund has been exhausted, their means of recovery will be much more limited than they are today. The defendant companies and their insurers will claim they have fulfilled their obligation, and no more relief can be given. Mr. Chairman, I hope you will continue to look at the legislation through the perspective not only of those that are currently sick, but for all of the future claimants that will inevitably surface, particularly those in Libby, Montana. 
   Sincerely, 
   Conrad Burns 
  United States Senator.
   Contact: Jennifer O'Shea, 202/224-6830.
 
 