SEN. BURNS ANNOUNCES MAJOR JUVENILE CRIME PREVENTION GRANT
 Today Sen. Conrad Burns (R - Mont.) announced the Montana Board of Crime Control will be awarded $600,000 from the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) to support Montana's state and local delinquency prevention, and intervention efforts, and juvenile justice system improvements. 
  "Our law enforcement community relies upon this annual funding to adequately prevent and deter juvenile crime," said Senator Burns. "Each year as I sit at the table where we decide the DOJ budget, I fight to make sure Montana will get its share of the funding so our state may continue to improve justice operations across the state."
  According to the Montana Board of Crime Control, their goal in juvenile justice planning is, "to promote a balanced approach and restorative justice system that equally targets the victim, the community and the offender, increasing public safety, accountability and competency skills."
  This formula grant series is awarded annually to state and local organizations based on need. According to DOJ, the Montana Board of Crime Control, based in Helena, received grants for juvenile crime prevention grants from DOJ for $600,000 in 2004 (plus a supplement of $82,000 that year), and $600,000 in 2005 (plus a supplement of $81,778).
  According to DOJ, the Formula Grants Program funding may be used to support programs in planning and administration, compliance monitoring, juvenile justice issues for American Indian Tribes, prevention of substance abuse by juveniles, prevention of serious and violent crimes by juveniles, prevention of juvenile gang involvement and illegal youth gang activities, prevention of delinquent acts and identification of youth at risk of delinquency, and improvement of juvenile justice system operations, policies, and procedures including establishing a system of graduated sanctions, treatment programs and aftercare.
  Senator Burns is a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, which funds DOJ.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183, matt_mackowiak@burns.senate.gov.
 
 