SEN. BURNS HONORED FOR DISTINGUISHED SERVICE BY ELECTRIC CO-OP ASSOCIATION
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-MT) today received the Distinguished Service Award of the National Rural Electric Cooperative Association (NRECA).  
 The NRECA Board of Directors confers its Distinguished Service Award on an outstanding national leader whose history of support for rural electrification and public power merits special recognition. 
   "It was my honor to receive the Distinguished Service Award from the NRECA," said Burns. "For years, Montana's electric cooperatives have provided our state with a stable, robust electrical infrastructure while boosting the economy and furthering development within our individual communities. It's been my pleasure to support them in Congress, and I will continue to do so for as long as they'll have me." 
   Burns was honored during the NRECA's 63rd Annual Meeting, which drew more than 12,000 representatives from consumer-owned electric cooperatives across the country. NRECA Board President David Cowan made the presentation during the meeting's opening general session. When presenting the award, Cowan said, "Rural electrification's tremendous success has been supported by dedicated elected representatives who know that electric co-ops create prosperity in their communities. The 37 million people served by electric cooperatives are fortunate to have Conrad Burns working on their behalf." 
   The National Rural Electric Cooperative Association is the national service organization dedicated to representing the national interests of cooperative electric utilities and the consumers they serve. Founded in 1942, NRECA was organized specifically to overcome World War II shortages of electric construction materials, to obtain insurance coverage for newly constructed rural electric cooperatives, and to mitigate wholesale power problems. Since those early days, NRECA has been an advocate for consumer-owned cooperatives on energy and operational issues as well as rural community and economic development.
 
 