SEN. BURNS PUSHES WHITE HOUSE ON SURFACE TRANSPORTATION BOARD VACANCY
 Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) called on to President Bush to send to the Senate a nominee for the Surface Transportation Board (STB) who understands the concerns of rail customers and will work to bring necessary competition to the industry.  
   The Surface Transportation Board is a three-member independent agency charged with resolving railroad rate and service disputes and reviewing proposed railroad mergers. 
   In his letter to the White House, Burns wrote, "Montana shippers are held captive to a single Class I railroad. Without competition for price and service, our rail customers battle against rates that are among the highest in the nation and often receive inadequate service. Thousands of bushels of grain sit on the ground after harvest, waiting for rail cars that are weeks delayed, while our utilities draw down their coal stockpiles, unable to get delivery on coal from the Powder River Basin. Earlier this week, BNSF, the only railway that serves Montana, announced a 24 percent increase in quarterly profits. I am pleased to see a healthy railroad - we need it. But those gains can not come on the backs of Montana farmers, consumers, small businesses, and rural communities. Without competition, the railroads hold tremendous sway over shippers. This is not the system Congress envisioned." 
   Burns is a senior member of the Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee, which has jurisdiction over the STB and any nominations to the Board. Burns noted that the STB has made a series of promises over the years that have gone largely unfulfilled. Senator Burns also said in the letter, "in fiscal year 2005, the Board asked the Congress for an additional $1 million, promising that 'the Board would use most of the additional resources to implement initiatives to expedite resolution of rail rate disputes between railroads and their largest customers and to offer a meaningful forum for the railroads' smaller customers'. The Board received an increase of $1.7 million, but we still lack a 'meaningful forum' for small rail customers." 
   Burns urged the President to "send to the Senate a nominee who will truly achieve the lofty goals that have been promised in the past and shape the Board into a forum for real dispute resolution, especially for the small shippers who have no alternatives." 
   The vacancy on the board occurred after the January 3, 2006 resignation of Chairman Roger Nober. Board Member W. Douglas Buttrey has since assumed the role of Chairman of the Surface Transportation Board. Buttrey recently visited Montana at the request of Sen. Burns to meet with grain and coal shippers, and will be returning to Montana for additional meetings on February 20th.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/224-6830. 
 
 