SEN. BURNS: USDA WITHDRAWS OVER-30 RULE FOR CANADIAN BEEF
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R - Mont.) today announced that the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) has withdrawn a proposed rule which would have allowed Canada to send cattle of all ages to the United States. Sen. Burns had shared his concerns with Deputy Agriculture Secretary Chuck Conner previously, urging USDA to move cautiously on the proposal.  
   "I was deeply concerned about this proposed rule, especially with the recent discovery of BSE in a Canadian cow born after the feed ban," said Senator Burns. "Given Canada's history with BSE cases, the science does not support this rule. I am glad we were able to slow this process down. We need to take a close look at Canada's enforcement of its feed ban, and I am hopeful that we will know more when our inspectors complete their evaluation of Canada's safeguards."
   Current USDA rules allow only cattle younger than 30 months of age to be imported. The proposed rule, removing that limitation, had been submitted by USDA to the White House Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for policy review and an eventual public comment period. Earlier this month, Canada discovered another case of BSE in a 50-month-old dairy cow from Alberta. 
   "It appears that Canada's feed ban has not been effective, and we shouldn't consider lifting the ban on cattle over 30 months until the issue is resolved," said Bill Donald, president of the Montana Stockgrowers Association. Donald, on behalf of his organization, wrote to USDA after the Canadian cow was discovered to request that the rule expanding eligible beef imports be postponed until the issue was fully investigated. 
   "U.S. cattle producers applaud USDA's decision to withdraw the draft OTM (over thirty months) rule. With growing BSE problems in Canada and continued obstacles to U.S. exports abroad, now is not the time to contemplate lowering U.S. import standards. USDA should now take the time to fully assess the risk presented by Canadian imports and ensure our standards provide the highest level of protection for animal health and consumer safety," said Leo McDonnell, former president and founder of R-CALF United Stockgrowers of America. 
   Senator Burns is a senior member of the Senate Agriculture Appropriations Subcommittee and former Agriculture broadcaster.
 
 