SEN. BURNS PROVISION FOR BROADBAND EXPENSING ADDED TO TAX PACKAGE
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R - Mont.) won inclusion of an important rural broadband tax provision in a Senate tax package that was reported out of the Senate Finance Committee today. The tax package, a combination of S. 1321 and S. 832, deals with a number of tax provisions, including a provision which will allow expensing broadband service for four years. This provision will make rural broadband more affordable and accelerate deployment across the country. 
  The explanation by the Joint Committee on Taxation says:
  "The proposal provides an election to treat any qualified broadband expenditure paid or incurred by the taxpayer as not chargeable to capital account, but rather, as a deduction. The deduction is allowed in the first taxable year in which either current generation, or next generation, broadband services are provided through qualified equipment to qualified subscribers. Expenditures are eligible for this election only for qualified equipment, the original use of which commences with the taxpayer. The proposal applies for qualified broadband expenditures incurred after June 30, 2006, and before January 1, 2011."
  "Current generation broadband services are defined as the transmission of signals at a rate of at least 5 million bits per second to the subscriber and a rate of at least 1 million bits per second from the subscriber. Next generation broadband services are defined as the transmission of signals at a rate of at least 50 million bits per second and a rate of at least 10 million bits per second from the subscriber."
  The provision would allow individuals and small businesses to expense the cost of broadband service, a technology which faces infrastructure challenges in rural areas.
  Earlier this month, Senator Burns wrote a letter to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Senate Finance Committee urging inclusion of this provision in any future tax legislation. Senator Burns is an original cosponsor of S. 1147, legislation which would permanently amend the tax code to allow broadband expensing. A similar effort was led by Senator Burns in the 108th Congress.
  "We need to support rural broadband deployment for both individuals and small businesses, and tax incentives are a reasonable, common-sense way to do that," said Senator Burns. "I have spent my career in the Senate fighting to make Montana technologically competitive with the larger states on the coasts. We have made measurable progress in telemedicine and distance learning, largely due to great strides in utilizing advanced technology. I support this effort to make rural broadband more available and more affordable for Montanans."
  Senator Burns is a senior member of the Senate Small Business and Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committees, and a former small business owner.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183, matt_mackowiak@burns.senate.gov.
 
 