SEN. BURNS SECURES $7 MILLION FOR ST. MARY'S
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R - Mont.) today announced that he has secured a total of $7 million for the St. Mary Rehabilitation and Milk River Project for fiscal year (FY) 2007, which begins October 1, 2006. The Energy and Water Appropriations bill includes $5 million for environmental and feasibility studies and development of an emergency response plan in the event of catastrophic failure. The Interior bill includes $2 million for irrigation investigations at the Blackfeet and Fort Belknap Reservations. 
  "We are working two tracks to rehabilitate the failing St. Mary facilities for the Hi-Line," said Senator Burns. "First, we need federal funding to complete the initial steps that are required before a major government construction project may begin. We have secured that funding and I am committed to seeing that funding through this year. Second, we are undertaking the long-term efforts to pass legislation for the many years it will take to complete the massive reconstruction of these facilities. Today, we expect that this project can move forward by taking another positive step, but we realize there is still a lot of work to be done."
  Construction will not be a part of this federal funding and would require passage of the authorization language, which Senator Burns introduced June 23. This authorization bill, S. 3563, the St. Mary Diversion and Conveyance Works and Milk River Project Act of 2006, would authorize major repairs for the reconstruction project along the Hi-Line and has been referred to the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee.
  Energy and Natural Resources Committee Chairman Pete Domenici (R - NM) has agreed to a request from Senator Burns to hold a field hearing in Montana in late summer or early fall.
  The authorizing legislation represents many months of coordination with the St. Mary's Working Group, an advisory council working to reconstruct the aging diversion facilities.
  Senator Burns is Chairman of the Senate Interior Appropriations Subcommittee and a senior member of the Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee, which together are funding the St. Mary's project.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183, matt_mackowiak@burns.senate.gov.
 
 