SEN. BURNS SECURES MAJOR 2007 FUNDING FOR GREAT FALLS AIR WING
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R - Mont.) today announced that he has secured second year federal funding for the Northern Border Air Wing for $6.4 million, which ensures the facility will remain operational through September 30, 2007. The facility will be operated at the Great Falls International Airport by Customs and Border Protection (CBP), a division of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS). 
  "This second-year operational funding for the Air Wing is a critical part of bringing this Air Wing to full operation," said Senator Burns. "This facility will play a vital role in securing our northern border, responding to narcotics trafficking, border security breaches and terrorist threats. The Air Wing is on schedule to be up and running by August of this year, and these funds will ensure the economic benefits to the Great Falls community and increased security to all Montanans along the northern border for years to come."
  The fiscal year 2007 funding level of $6.4 million is divided into $2.4 million for operations and maintenance of the assets, and $4 million for staffing. The Air Wing branch is expected to bring a total of more than 60 jobs to the Great Falls area. 
  On June 13, Senator Burns announced that the lease for the hangar space was signed between CBP and the Airport (with Holman Aviation). As part of the lease, the Air Wing will rent the hangar space, hire up to 34 personnel, and move the assets in to place as early as August 1, including two Blackhawk helicopters, two 550 Cessna Interceptors, and PC 12s (fixed wing aircraft). Once operational, the Northern Border Air Wing will provide a robust capability in patrolling the border and rapid response. The Air Wing and CBP will hire the remaining 32 personnel to run the operation after a period of training for the two full time employees already hired.
  The Northern Border Air Wing is part of a comprehensive CBP strategy employ fast response teams for customs, immigration, and national security missions across the northern border at sites in Washington state, New York, and Great Falls, among others.
  The funding level passed through the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee Tuesday and is expected to pass the full Senate Appropriations Committee Thursday. After that point, the remaining hurdles are final passage before the full Senate, which is expected in July, and then a Conference with the House to reconcile the two versions of the bill.
  Senator Burns is a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, which has jurisdiction over DHS Appropriations, and secured the initial $18.3 million for fiscal year 2006 in federal funding for the Northern Border Air Wing.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183, matt_mackowiak@burns.senate.gov.
 
 