SEN. BURNS FIGHTS FOR DISASTER AID TO FARMERS IN BIPARTISAN SENATE EFFORT
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R - Mont.) is fighting in the Senate for farmers who have suffered severe losses from various natural disasters, including drought, flood, disease, and specifically Hurricane Katrina. The total relief package for farmers and ranchers across the nation is estimated to be $3.8 billion. 
  Senator Burns said, "This legislation is a comprehensive effort to address the scope of agriculture disaster that hit the nation last year and continues to impact producers. It includes assistance for weather-related disasters, as well as the economic emergency caused by skyrocketing fuel and fertilizer prices. In the past, Montana producers have battled against years of drought that cost them in crop production shortfalls, quality losses, damage to livestock feed supplies and reduction in herd supplies. Last year, we started seeing an end to the drought, and projections for this year indicate that there is some much needed moisture in the ground. But the doubling, tripling, or even quadrupling of fuel and fertilizer prices has placed a real hardship on our growers. Like a weather-related disaster, the unprecedented spike in input costs was not something they could have foreseen or protected themselves against.
  "I have been working across the aisle with many of my colleagues to address this issue in the Senate. There is no industry more important to the stability and growth of this country than agriculture, which has been producing the food and fiber this nation relies on for decades. In the future, Montana producers will increasingly become a major part of the energy industry, through promising technological advances such as cellulose ethanol and biodiesel. Making agriculture part of our efforts to end our nation's dependence on foreign oil will bring new options to producers, and bring increased investments to our rural communities that will stabilize farm economies. Right now, however, we must act in Congress to give our producers the help they need in light of this difficult period of time, to ensure the health and vitality of this critical industry."
  The bill, S. 2438, the Emergency Disaster Assistance Act of 2006, was co-introduced in the Senate on March 16, 2006 by Senator Kent Conrad (D - ND), Senator Burns, and 23 other Senators.
  Senator Burns is a senior member of the powerful Senate Appropriations Committee, as well as a former agricultural broadcaster.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183, matt_mackowiak@burns.senate.gov.
 
 