SEN. BURNS UNVEILS NEW TOOL TO KEEP KIDS SAFE ONLINE
  In a press conference last week, Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont) joined i-SAFE America and VeriSign to announce the new i-STIK, a portable tool that can be inserted into USB ports to help safeguard the integrity of a child's online experience. It allows kids and teens to enter an age-centered chat rooms with confidence that everyone logged in will be who they say they are. Chatters' actual ages and genders can be confirmed from the i-STIK. Burns launched the i-SAFE program in Montana schools in October of 2003.  
   "We have done a lot of work to implement the i-SAFE program in Montana, and it's certainly doing a lot to educate our kids on how to stay safe online, but there is still work to be done," said Burns. "The world is a different place today than it was years ago, and we've come to learn that there are enormous opportunities for children to fall into dangerous situations online. Education is the key, and I am glad to know Montana is on the right track in getting all our kids educated about the dangers online, and this new i-STIK is another huge step in the right direction." 
   Dillon Middle School has been chosen as a pilot school for the i-STIK program, and students there will receive their i-STIKs in the next several weeks according to i-SAFE CEO Teri Schroeder. Carol Skiles, Special Programs Director for Dillon Elementary School District #10 said: "We are committed to providing a safe online experience for our students, and through the i- SAFE program we have been able to offer our students education about how to protect themselves online. Through this great program, Dillon Middle School has recently been chosen as a pilot school for the i-STIK, which will allow our students to enter chat rooms with confidence. I am pleased we have been chosen as the first school in Montana to offer i-STIKs to our students, and I know this new token will go a long way in helping protect our students when they're chatting online." 
   Burns added: "Without education about dangers online, kids can easily fall into the traps of online predators, and we have seen too many of these cases in Montana. These i-STIKs are invaluable tools for keeping our kids safe, and I am so glad we're able to get Dillon kids signed up right away. I look forward to making i-STIKs available for all our students in Montana."
   Contact: Jennifer O'Shea, 202/224-6830.
 
 