SEN. BURNS INCLUDES LIBBY LANGUAGE IN INTERIOR BILL
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R - Mont.) today announced the full Senate Appropriations Committee passed his Interior Appropriations bill, which includes language directing the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to work with the town of Libby to develop an acceptable timeline for completion of the Record of Decision (ROD). This language was inserted by Sen. Burns at the request of the Libby community. 
  The ROD, according to the EPA website, is a "public document that explains which cleanup alternatives will be used to clean up a Superfund site." To date, members of the Libby community have raised concerns regarding the EPA's actions in Libby, highlighted by the recent discovery of asbestos at the Old Export Plant. Senator Burns has also heard from Libby residents about the need for increased community involvement, both through business opportunities as well as the progress and scientific methodology of the remediation. Recently, the EPA Regional Administrator responsible for Montana visited Libby and assured the community that their input would guide EPA's actions. Through inclusion of this language, Senator Burns expects the EPA to fulfill its commitments.
  "I am deeply troubled by this situation in Libby and have been working to fix it, not just talk about it," said Senator Burns. "EPA needs to develop a timeline for the ROD, not continue delaying. This process needs to move forward in a spirit of cooperation with the community, so their concerns are addressed before the ink dries. We need to ensure Libby businesses are given a full and fair chance to compete for business opportunities there. This language provides greater community participation with the EPA."
  The provision's language in the Senate Interior Appropriations bill says:
  "Despite years of remediation efforts, the Committee remains concerned that EPA has not yet issued a Record of Decision (ROD) for Libby, Montana. The Committee directs the Agency to work with the community to develop an acceptable timeline for completion of the project. It is of paramount importance that EPA allow for extensive input by the community at all phases of the process to determine the priorities of the community. Also, local businesses should be given every consideration in the Agency's contracting process. Finally, the Committee expects EPA to follow proper scientific procedures during the remediation process to ensure the safety of the community."
  Senator Burns expects to discuss this issue with EPA Administrator Stephen Johnson in the next few days as part of their ongoing dialogue about Libby.
  Senator Burns is Chairman of the Senate Interior Appropriations Subcommittee and a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183, matt_mackowiak@burns.senate.gov.
 
 