SEN. BURNS GRILLS AIR FORCE SECRETARY WYNNE ON MISSILES
  Today in a Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee hearing Sen. Conrad Burns grilled the U.S. Air Force Secretary, Michael Wynne, on the defense posture with regard to missile strategy. 
  In the hearing, Senator Burns said, "Many of us in Congress have seen the Air Force struggling in these past four or five years to find a core mission and direction. Your mission statement talks of 'sovereign options'. I don't know what a 'sovereign option' is right now, we're presently engaged in a global war, and it's a long war."
  Senator Burns continued in his opening statement, "In practice, I see that our airmen in today's air force are leading forward to accomplish that mission. In contrast, the senior leadership of the Air Force seems to be detached from the reality of what this operation is all about. The future of the air force is in support of the effort on the ground, it's not the main effort of the fight, but rather a transporting arm."
  Senator Burns focused his questions on the perception that Air Force budget considerations are driving strategic posture decisions. In 2002 the Nuclear Posture Review mandated by Congress declared U.S. policy to be a force of 500 missiles.
  Senator Burns said, "The proliferation of nuclear weapons throughout the world requires that we maintain these missiles as part of our strategic defense capability. I am not convinced that the Quadrennial Defense Review (QDR) is the definitive word on this issue."
  Earlier this year, Senator Burns secured a commitment from Secretary Wynne for an Air Force "Attributes Study" of Malmstrom Air Force Base, which will be conducted April 10. The "Attributes Study" will be a review of Malmstrom's facilities and capabilities from "A to Z" and is the first step in an effort to bring new missions to Malmstrom and re-open the runway.
  Senator Burns served in the U.S. Marine Corps and is a senior member of the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee and the Military Construction and Veterans Appropriations Committee.
 
 