SEN. BURNS SAYS AIR WING TO RECEIVE $7.6 MILLION IN FISCAL 2007 FUNDING
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R - Mont.) today announced major funding for the Northern Border Air Wing facility has been passed in a Conference report by a Senate voice vote late Friday night. The House passed the Conference report 412-6 earlier today also and now it is expected gain presidential approval in the coming days. 
  This second-year funding for the Air Wing in Great Falls, initially secured by Senator Burns in the Homeland Security Appropriations bill at $6.4 million, was increased to $7.6 million for the Great Falls Air Wing branch for fiscal year (FY) 2007 operations. This funding ensures the facility will remain operational through the coming year and is divided into $5.5 million for operations and maintenance of the assets and $2.1 million for staffing. The Air Wing branch is expected to bring a total of more than 60 jobs to the Great Falls area.
  "I emphasized to my colleagues on the Senate Appropriations Committee how critically important this funding is for the Great Falls Air Wing branch," said Senator Burns. "Montana and this country are safer today because we have planes in the air right now. This funding will ensure their operation in the future, bringing jobs to the Great Falls community and improved security on the northern border."
  Senator Burns secured $18.3 million in the FY 2006 Homeland Security Appropriations bill to establish the Great Falls Air Wing. Operated at the Great Falls International Airport by U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP), a division of DHS, the Air Wing provides a robust capability in patrolling the northern border and enabling rapid response against terrorist, narcotics or border threats. Senator Burns announced last week that he and senior CBP officials will attend an official dedication ceremony at the Air Wing on October 16.
  The Northern Border Air Wing is part of a comprehensive strategy to employ fast response teams for customs, immigration, and national security missions across the northern border at sites in Washington state, North Dakota, Michigan, New York, and Great Falls.
  Additionally, the conference includes an amendment sponsored by Senator Burns requiring DHS to work with the Federal Aviation Administration to establish a pilot program to test unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) for security missions and surveillance along the northern border.
   "The Air Wing already gives us an improved capability," said Senator Burns. "Technology like UAVs will enable us to more closely monitor the northern border and provide real-time imaging. In a post 9/11 world, we need improved border security and surveillance information in real time."
  Senator Burns is a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, which has jurisdiction over Homeland Security Appropriations, and secured the initial $18.3 million for fiscal year 2006 in federal funding for the Northern Border Air Wing.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183, matt_mackowiak@burns.senate.gov.
 
 