SEN. BURNS MAKES STATEMENT REGARDING EMERGENCY COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) today commented on the Senate Commerce Committee hearing focused on communications during emergency situations. At the hearing, witnesses discussed the importance of protecting critical communications infrastructure, and ways to improve the interoperability of communications systems that often exists.  
   "This is the second hearing on this topic we've had in two weeks, which shows just how important this topic is," said Burns. "I have always worked to make sure that our first responders have the tools and training they need to do their jobs in a safe and timely manner. This is an important for the everyday lives of Americans, and in the aftermath of several hurricanes this season, we can see just how important this is during a catastrophic emergency like we experienced with Katrina. We have learned some valuable lessons in the past few weeks, but it has become clear that there is work to be done. Interoperability of emergency communications systems is a critical component of national security, and it absolutely must be improved." 
   Burns went on to add the importance of passing pending legislation that would improve the safety and emergency services in our country: "I have long taken an interest in making sure the country's 9-1-1 infrastructure is built out with the latest technology. I have heard one too many stories where a life could have been saved if a community's system was more up-to-date, and I am committed to ensuring 9-1-1 will be able to help you when you dial those three numbers. We need to act quickly to pass legislation that will ensure our 9-1-1 system includes the latest technologies, and we need to act now." 
   Burns is the lead sponsor of legislation that would require Voice over Internet Protocol (VOIP) service providers to ensure that 911 and Enhanced 911 (E911) services are available to customers. This bill is pending review in the Commerce Committee before it can move to the Senate floor for passage.
   Contact: Jennifer O'Shea, 202/224-6830.
 
 