SEN. BURNS ANNOUNCES PLAN TO CUT CABLE COSTS THROUGH COMPETITION
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) announced today any future legislation on video franchising reform must include several principles he outlined. Video franchising legislation addresses the right of cable television providers, in conjunction with local municipalities, to offer their product in a given area. Without a franchise agreement, many of the important mechanisms that local governments use to manage their rights of way, ensure competition for everyone, and collect franchise fees are eliminated.  
   Senator Burns announced guiding principles for federal legislation that will introduce competition into the market while maintaining local control in video franchising. The principles Senator Burns outlined are: 
   1. Establish beyond doubt the prominent role of states and localities in the video franchising process. 
   2. Facilitate competition by promoting speedy entry on mutually favorable terms. 
   3. Promote fairness for both consumers and localities on a level playing field for providers. 
   Senator Burns said, "Introducing more competition to the market is always a good idea, it lowers prices while giving consumers options so they can choose what best fits their needs. I believe a balanced approach that streamlines the process, provides flexibility for the cities, and treats all providers the same will mark a major step forward in video competition. The federal government has a role to play in making sure this is done in a way that benefits consumers not only in large cities but in rural areas like Montana as well, but it is not the federal government's responsibility to tell the localities how they operate. The principles I've outlined today will do just that. We need to clear the way for local authorities to embrace whatever they think is the best and fairest way to introduce real competition for customers. This will help lower costs as well as offer options previously unavailable to consumers. It's a win-win situation for consumers, local governments, and providers."
   Contact: Derek Hunter, 202/224-6137, 202/380-8182.
 
 