SEN. BURNS PLEDGES TO AID SENIORS WITH ENROLLMENT ISSUES IN MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG PLANS
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) today lauded the new Medicare Part D prescription drug benefit as an important new tool in improving the health and quality of life of Senior citizens.  
   At a hearing of the Committee on Aging, Senator Burns listened to the Director of the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services, Dr. Mark McClellan, testify to the Committee about how CMS is addressing the issues that have arisen since Part D has gone into effect January 1, 2006. 
   Senator Burns questioned Dr. McClellan about how CMS is reaching out to rural seniors and Indian Reservations, both of particular concern to Senator Burns. Dr. McClellan pledged to work with Senator Burns any way he could in ensuring every senior with a question has an answer to that question, and special attention would be paid to rural areas and Indian Reservations. 
   Senator Burns also cautioned Committee Members against unwarranted, ideological criticisms of Part D that will lead to many seniors who need help with the cost of prescription drugs to not taking advantage of the program. He urged Senators and other politicians "not to play politics with the lives and health of seniors." 
   "Prescription drugs are a vital part of the health care system, they not only save lives, they improve the quality of life for many seniors," Burns said. "Are there issues that need to be addressed in the program? Yes, and they are, immediately. CMS is working very hard to address problems as they arise. Members of Congress should be working just as hard for their constituents to help them find out if the program is right for them, and if so, to enroll in the best plan they can find. Instead, what we have is too many Members criticizing the program in such harsh terms so as to discourage vulnerable seniors from even considering their options. While they may be able to score political points doing this, they are hurting those seniors they discourage." 
   Burns continued, "Everyday a senior without drug coverage waits to enroll because they've only heard their elected representatives say negative things about how confusing this plan is, is another day that senior spends more on their prescription drugs than they have to. And it's another day that senior is hurt. This has to stop. The only way to ensure our seniors get the help they deserve is to serve their health needs, not political needs. I call on every Member of Congress, every elected official in the country, to put their partisanship aside, put their political aspirations aside, and help in making this plan work. We should not play politics with the lives and health of seniors."
   Contact: Derek Hunter, 202/224-6137, 202/380-8182.
 
 