SEN. BURNS ISSUES STATEMENT ON NOMINATION OF CHARLES NOTTINGHAM TO FILL STB VACANCY
  The President late Thursday nominated Charles D. "Chip" Nottingham to the Surface Transportation Board (STB), which has had one seat vacant since the Board's Chairman, Roger Nober, resigned January 3, 2006.
  As Associate Administrator of the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA), Nottingham inspected the damage to the Beartooth Highway with Senator Burns last year. 
  Senator Burns responded to the nomination, saying, "Chip Nottingham has good experience, having served admirably for almost four years at FHWA. He's no stranger to Montana and I believe he understands the unique transportation needs of our state. I am hopeful he'll be a sympathetic ear to the problems faced by producers and small businesses in Montana as they pertain to the serious captive shipper issue.
  "But the STB is a vitally important independent agency that is currently disappointing hundreds of thousands of energy customers and small businesses across this country in captive markets, such as Montana. I intend to take this nomination hearing very seriously to make certain Chip Nottingham will reform the STB so my grain and coal shippers have a responsible agency to hear their complaints for a reasonable fee in a fair way. We must bring necessary competition to the industry and that's something I'll keep fighting for. But it deeply concerns me that the railroads have never lost a rate case at the STB and the cost to even be heard is many hundreds of thousands of dollars. I want answers."
  The STB is a three-member independent agency charged with resolving railroad rate and service disputes and reviewing proposed railroad mergers.
  Following the vacancy in January, Senator Burns has consistently advocated the White House to nominate an STB nominee that fully understands the concerns of rail customers and will work to bring necessary competition to the industry. Senator Burns urged the President to, "send to the Senate a nominee who will truly achieve the lofty goals that have been promised in the past and shape the Board into a forum for real dispute resolution, especially for the small shippers who have no alternatives."
  In a letter to the President earlier this year, Senator Burns wrote, "Montana shippers are held captive to a single Class I railroad. Without competition, our rail customers battle against rates that are among the highest in the nation and often receive inadequate service. Thousands of bushels of grain sit on the ground after harvest, waiting for rail cars that are weeks delayed. Meanwhile our utilities draw down their coal stockpiles, unable to get coal delivery from the Powder River Basin. Recently, BNSF, the only railway that serves Montana, announced a 24 percent increase in quarterly profits. I am pleased to see a healthy railroad - we need it. But those gains can not come on the backs of Montana farmers, consumers, small businesses, and rural communities."
  At the request of Senator Burns, STB Chairman Doug Buttrey visited Montana to meet with grain and coal shippers. Senator Burns is a senior member of the Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee, which has jurisdiction over the STB and any nominations to the Board.
  Senator Burns noted that the STB has made a series of promises that have gone largely unfulfilled, writing the President, "in fiscal year 2005, the Board asked the Congress for an additional $1 million, promising that 'the Board would use most of the additional resources to implement initiatives to expedite resolution of rail rate disputes between railroads and their largest customers and to offer a meaningful forum for the railroads' smaller customers'. The Board received an increase of $1.7 million, but we still lack a 'meaningful forum' for small rail customers."
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183, matt_mackowiak@burns.senate.gov.
 
 