SEN. BURNS APPLAUDS FINAL PASSAGE OF PATRIOT ACT
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R - Mont.) today applauded the final passage of the Patriot Act, following an 89-10 vote to re-authorize the Patriot Act for another four years.  
   Senator Burns said, "I've strongly supported the Patriot Act and am pleased it passed today by an overwhelming majority. Law enforcement officials in Montana tell me all the time how much they need these tools to protect Montanans. We have satisfied the concerns of some Senators with regard to the civil liberties. 
   "I am specifically very pleased about two provisions in the Patriot Act that passed today. First, the Combat Meth Act includes specific provisions that will toughen penalties on meth users and cooks, make Environmental Protection Agency funding available to the states for super lab cleanup, and most importantly federally mandate that pseudoephedrine must be behind the counter and limit the purchases individuals can make each trip and in a one month period. We need to realize that meth is an epidemic in our country and we have responded by giving law enforcement the tools they are pleading for. 
   "Second, I am very supportive of the Port Security provisions in the Patriot Act that will make it a federal crime to enter federal property (including our ports) under false pretenses, interfere with maritime commerce or navigation, transport terrorists via cargo, or bribe any private or public official with the intent to commit terrorism. These are important provisions that will strengthen port security across the country. Overall, the American people can rest easier knowing the Patriot Act has been passed for four more years, giving law enforcement the tools they require to protect Americans." 
   Senator Burns meets with Montana state and local law enforcement officers often throughout the state, and they always praise the tools included in the original Patriot Act and the need for it to be re-authorized in a post 9/11 environment. 
   Custer County Sheriff Tony Harbaugh (Miles City, MT) said, "My officers and officers throughout the country are going to be able to do their jobs and help keep citizens safer with the passage of this bill. Senator Burns has been instrumental and we appreciate his efforts on behalf of the citizens of Montana." 
   Ron Kemp, Commander of the Big Muddy Task Force (Wolf Point, MT), said, "The specific provisions in the Combat Meth Act offer law enforcement the tools needed to reduce the availability of meth to the Nations youth and young adults. It makes those responsible for distribution and manufacture accountable." 
   After final passage, Senator Burns participated in a press conference with Senators Jon Kyl (R - AZ), Kay Bailey Hutchison (R - TX), Jim Talent (R - MO), Jeff Sessions (R - AL), and Saxby Chambliss (R - GA). In today's press conference, Senator Burns said, "With the meth problem, an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure. With passage of the Patriot Act we've fulfilled our responsibility to law enforcement and we're safer because of it." 
   Senator Burns is the founder of the Senate Anti-Meth caucus, a senior member of the Defense Appropriations committee, three-term U.S. Senator, and former Marine.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183.
 
 