SEN. BURNS ANNOUNCES $88,000 ANTI-GANG INITIATIVE GRANT
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) today announced that the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) issued discretionary, fiscal year 2006 funding for their Anti-Gang Initiative, totaling $88,582 for Montana. The Anti-Gang Initiative will provide funds to the support the new or expanded anti-gang enforcement and prevention efforts under the existing Project Safe Neighborhoods (PSN) Initiative. 
  The PSN initiative is a nationwide commitment to reduce gun crime in America by networking existing local programs that target gun crime and providing these programs with additional tools necessary to be successful. The Bush Administration committed over $1.5 billion to this effort since PSN's inception in 2001.
  Senator Burns said, "Montanans are facing a greater threat from gang-related related crime than ever before. The methamphetamine crisis has made our state a destination for the criminal element, where before Montana was only a corridor. These funds will go a long way to helping the Montana Board of Crime Control fight the crime associated with gangs in order to make all Montanans safer."
  The Anti-Gang Initiative will be directed by the United States Attorney in each of the 94 federal judicial districts across the America. Grant funds will be allocated to a single fiscal body within each district for the sake of appropriating money to relevant district projects. That body will be responsible for distributing the funds throughout the community and supporting the Anti-Gang Initiative within the community. 
  The Montana Board of Crime Control, which was allocated $88,582, will be the fiscal body for the Anti-Gang initiative. The funds will be directly used to support the local prosecutor for the use of convicting gang and gun offenders. Hiring the new prosecutor will complete the larger goal of getting ahead of the developing gang related problems and the use of weapons in Montanan communities. The new prosecutor will also help to develop prospect cases and ensure an aggressive prosecution on those ready for court.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183, matt_mackowiak@burns.senate.gov.
 
 