SEN. BURNS: ILLEGAL ALIENS SHOULD NOT BE REPRESENTED IN CONGRESS
  Today Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) introduced the Fair and Accurate Representation Act of 2006, which will ensure that millions of illegal aliens are not a factor in determining Congressional districts based on population figures across the U.S.
  Currently, the U.S. Census Bureau, under the U.S. Department of Commerce, is responsible for providing updated population data each decade. These statistics are then used for apportionment, which determines proportional representation in the House of Representatives. The current system employed by the Census Bureau, which is then used for apportionment, counts all residents, including illegal immigrants. 
  If the statistics from the 2000 Census that were used for Congressional apportionment had not included illegal aliens, Montana (along with Mississippi, Michigan, and Indiana) would likely have gained a seat in the House. Instead, those seats remained or were gained in states with a high percentage of illegal aliens. Despite an increase in population in the 2000 Census, Montana did not gain a seat and currently has the smallest Congressional representation allowable by the Constitution.
  Senator Burns said, "This is common-sense legislation. Law-abiding citizens in Montana are losing out on representation because millions of illegal immigrants have flooded states like California. Montana deserves fair and accurate representation in Congress. This bill will ensure that."
  This legislation only deals with the re-apportionment process and would not be subject to the requirements of a Constitutional amendment. The re-apportionment process is the role of the U.S. Congress and to fulfill that role they use Census data.
  Senator Burns is a senior member of the Senate Commerce Committee, which has jurisdiction over the Census Bureau.
  STATEMENT FOR THE RECORD
   "Mr. President, over the last few months, we have discussed at length the problem of illegal immigration. What many may not realize is that illegal immigration affects our system of representation as well.
  "After the 1990 Census, my state of Montana lost one of its two seats in the House of Representatives. Ten years later, our great state had grown to more than 900,000 residents, but still did not gain a seat. 
  "Meanwhile, we have an estimated 12 million illegal aliens in this country today, and all of them will be a factor to determine which states gain or lose a seat in the House of Representatives after the Census in 2010. This is because current policy tells us to count everyone in this country, illegal or not, when determining Congressional apportionment. 
  "If these trends continue, we will have millions more illegal aliens counted in the 2010 Census. The result will be more seats lost in states that have actually increased in population of law-abiding U.S. residents.
  "Thankfully, my state of Montana cannot lose any more seats in the House of Representatives. We are down to our last one. Other states, however, will not be so fortunate. 
  "Law-abiding citizens should not have to lose representation because millions of illegal immigrants ignore our laws. That is why today, I am introducing the Fair and Accurate Representation Act. This bill will exclude the masses of illegal aliens in this country from being part of the Congressional apportionment process. 
  "If we act now, we can get started on reforming this process in time for the 2010 Census. The voting rights of law-abiding citizens should not be diluted by those who choose to enter this country illegally. I call upon my colleagues in the Senate to join me in correcting this process, so that those who lawfully reside in this country receive fair and accurate representation."
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183, matt_mackowiak@burns.senate.gov.
 
 