SEN. BURNS SUPPORTS AMENDMENT TO ENSURE FUTURE OF EMPIRE BUILDER
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) cosponsored an amendment to the Budget Reconciliation Bill today that will work to ensure the future of Amtrak's Empire Builder. The amendment provides important reforms for Amtrak, including audits on amenities like food and beverage service, and sleeper cars. 
   "This amendment represents the next step in my fight to reform Amtrak in a way that preserves passenger rail as a necessary component in our nation's transportation system," said Burns. "It provides needed reforms to help Amtrak operate more efficiently, but does so in a way that enhances, rather than harms, existing service. On a train like the Empire Builder, amenities like sleeper cars and a food and beverage service are critical, but other trains may not be the same. With the bill in place, Amtrak can evaluate each of their train lines independently and make needed reforms individually."
   As a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Burns has been a staunch supporter of Amtrak funding throughout his career and recently helped secure over $1.45 billion for the train line.
   "Ridership records for Amtrak continue to grow in Montana and across the nation," he continued. "So many aspects of Montana's economy are reliant upon the Empire Builder, it would be devastating if that line were ever lost. This bill will help Amtrak reduce its reliance on federal funds and improve its importance across the board."
   Burns' statement on the amendment is included below.
   Burns Statement on Amtrak Amendment
   "Just a few weeks ago, the Senate passed the Transportation Appropriations bill, which included $1.45 billion in Amtrak funding. The amendment I am cosponsoring today represents the next step in the fight to reform Amtrak in a way that preserves passenger rail as a necessary component in our nation's transportation system by providing needed reforms to help Amtrak operate more efficiently, but in a way that enhances, rather than harms, existing service.
   The Empire Builder, which runs through Montana, serves an important public need, and I appreciate the work of Senators Lott, Inouye, and Lautenberg on developing this reauthorization bill. Conservative estimates indicate that the Empire Builder brings roughly $13 million annually into Montana. Amtrak is a key component of Montana's infrastructure, and folks feel pretty strongly about keeping the Empire Builder operational.
   Recently, Amtrak announced record ridership numbers for the past fiscal year - a trend we saw in Montana as well. Given the high fuel prices folks are facing these days, preserving alternate forms of transportation is even more critical. Part of Congress' duty is to make sure that Amtrak is responsible with the federal dollars it receives. Amtrak continues to have widespread support throughout the country, and Congress needs to ensure that Amtrak remains a part of our nation's infrastructure.
   Amtrak must work to reduce its reliance on federal spending, and improve performance across the board. This amendment today moves Amtrak in that direction, and I am pleased to be a co-sponsor. It provides important reforms for Amtrak, including audits on amenities like food and beverage service, and sleeper cars. On a train like the Empire Builder, those amenities are critical. On other trains, maybe some changes can be made. Each route needs to be evaluated for potential reforms.
   I recognize that attaching authorizing language to the budget reconciliation is not the preferred method to move this bill. However, Amtrak needs to be reauthorized, and Congress must do its duty to direct passenger rail reform. So I hope that the Senate can agree to include this amendment today, and take action on the important reforms that Amtrak needs."
 
 