SEN. BURNS CITES PROGRESS IN DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY AIR WING COMING TO GREAT FALLS
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R - Mont.) was briefed today by senior officials from U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) on progress of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Northern Border Air Wing in Great Falls, which was made possible one year ahead of schedule with $18.3 million in appropriations secured by Sen. Burns in the FY06 DHS Appropriations bill signed by the president in October 2005.  
   Meeting today with CBP Assistant Commissioner Michael Kostelnik and Director of Air Operations Dennis Lindsay, Senator Burns was briefed on the results of site surveys performed in Great Falls in January at both the Great Falls Airport and Malmstrom Air Force base. 
   Senator Burns said, "The Northern Border Air Wing will provide flights in Great Falls starting this summer, and bring jobs, resources, and improved security to the Great Falls community, the state, and to the northern border." 
   In the meeting, Commissioner Kostelnik highlighted the DHS strategy to employ fast response teams for customs, immigration, and national security missions across the northern border at sites in Washington state, New York, and Great Falls, among others. 
   The DHS Air Wing will likely be housed at the Great Falls Airport initially due to available hangar space, an operational runway, fixed base operators, and the costs involved with re-opening the runway at Malmstrom. The Air Wing will rent the hangar space from the airport, hire 30 personnel initially, and move the assets in to place, including Blackhawk helicopters, 550 Cessna Interceptors, and PC 12s (fixed wing aircraft). Once operational, the Northern Border Air Wing will provide a 24/7 capability in patrolling the border and rapid response. 
   While Senator Burns agreed the airport is the best site at this time in order to utilize the $18.3 million in funding he secured for the project, he also noted that the runway at Malmstrom is a valuable asset that should not be overlooked as a permanent home for the Northern Border Air Wing branch. Senator Burns has met with Department of Defense and U.S. Air Force senior officials over the past ten days on the future of Malmstrom, and the possibility of bringing new missions there. 
   Senator Burns said, "The Northern Border Air Wing is important to Montana, and critical to our national security strategy. Our longer range goal is the re-opening of the runway at Malmstrom, and we are undertaking an effort to bring in several federal agencies to share the cost and responsibility. We'll continue to work closely with CBP and local officials to ensure the Air Wing is up and running in the coming months, providing needed border security missions to our state and an economic benefit to the Great Falls community." 
   Senator Burns' state staff met with CBP officials in January in Great Falls during the site survey process to evaluate the local benefit to the community.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/224-6830, 202/380-8183.
 
 