SENS. BURNS, ENZI RELEASE SURVEY SHOWING 89 PERCENT SUPPORT FOR SMALL BUSINESS HEALTH PLANS
  In a press conference held in the U.S. Capitol building today, U.S. Sens. Conrad Burns (R-MT), Mike Enzi (R - Wyo.) and Ben Nelson (D - Neb.) released survey data that showed 89% of people surveyed favored small business health plans (SBHP) as a concept, while only six percent opposed. 
  At the press conference, Senator Burns said, "We can't forget that farmers and ranchers are small businesses too."
  Senators Burns, Nelson, and Enzi, the Chairman of the Senate Health, Education, Workforce and Labor Committee, urged the Senate to pass their SBHP bill, S. 1955.
  Senator Burns said, "We need to pass health care insurance relief for small businesses, and our bill does that. It's bipartisan and has broad support among industries. This bill will allow small businesses to band together and negotiate with insurance companies from a stronger position. It will lower health care costs on small businesses, including farmers, ranchers, realtors, and family businesses and also provide small business employees with health care coverage. The marketplace works if we dare to challenge it."
  The survey was prepared by two public opinion firms for the National Association of Realtors (NAR) and also showed that 93% of Republicans, 86 % of Democrats and 83% of Independents support the proposal. Additional findings in the survey include:
  * The 25 percent of voters who work in America's smallest companies (companies with less than 10 employees) are having the most difficulty. Forty-eight percent of these voters say the health care system is not meeting their own needs or the needs of their families.
  * Almost one quarter of voters (23 percent) have gone without health insurance coverage at some point over the last three years.
  Senator Burns is a senior member of the Senate Small Business and Appropriations Committees.
  Survey available at: http://www.realtors.org/PublicAffairsWeb.nsf/files/SBHPPoll32806.ppt/$FILE/SBHPPoll32806.ppt.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183, matt_mackowiak@burns.senate.gov.
 
 