SEN. BURNS ANNOUNCES CABLE TECH WINS BOEING P-8A AIRCRAFT CONTRACT
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R - Mont.) today announced Cable Technology, Inc., an emerging business based in Great Falls, has been awarded a contract to support the Boeing P-8A Multi-Mission Maritime Aircraft program. This program uses the proven, fuel-efficient 737 airframe for our maritime security. 
  "I am proud of the work that Cable Tech has been doing," said Senator Burns. "The quality of their work is unsurpassed in the Aviation industry. I am confident that this is the first of many contracts that will bring new jobs to Great Falls and Montana and I was pleased to support it."
  For the initial contract, the company will provide electrical and coaxial assemblies for the first three P-8A aircraft, with follow-on contracts expected to be awarded at a later date. Boeing anticipates selling 108 P-8A aircraft to the U.S. Navy as a replacement for its P-3C platform. The first aircraft will be delivered to the Navy in 2009, with initial operational capability slated for 2013. Cable Technology's deliveries to support the P-8A program will begin in early 2007.
  "We are pleased that The Boeing Company has chosen to utilize Cable Technology and the State of Montana for the P-8A Aircraft Program," said Ed Buttrey, company president. "With the support of Senator Burns, First Interstate Bank, and the economic development folks in Great Falls, we were able to secure this contract and create additional long term employment opportunities at Cable Technology. By far, this is the largest opportunity that we have seen to date. We are excited to be chosen to participate in a program so vital to the national security of our nation."
  According to Buttrey, program-specific details will be released by Boeing and made available as soon as possible.
  Senator Burns served in the United States Marine Corps from 1955-1957 and is a senior member of the Senate Defense Appropriations and Military Construction Subcommittees.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183, matt_mackowiak@burns.senate.gov.
 
 