SEN. BURNS HIGHLIGHTS SUCCESS OF MEDICARE PART D BUS TOUR
  As the week-long Montana leg of the Medicare bus tour closed today, Sen. Conrad Burns (R--Mont) highlighted the savings hundreds of Montanans will now see in their prescription drug bills after enrolling in the drug benefit program this week.
  On Saturday, Senator Burns welcomed U.S. Senator Mike Enzi (R--Wyo.), Chairman of the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee to the Billings Clinic for a Medicare Part D town hall meeting to kick-off the Montana bus tour. Senators Burns and Enzi both spoke at the event, listened to attendees about Part D and their experience, and observed the enrollment process. Senator Burns then continued to Bozeman on Sunday with the bus tour where he again received positive feedback from seniors. 
  At the request of Senator Burns, the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) brought the nationwide bus tour through Montana to answer questions and enroll senior citizens in the Part D prescription drug coverage program. The Medicare Mobile Enrollment Center is a bus that provides both transportation and technology for this event. It is equipped with satellite technology that makes the Internet available in each location. This aids staff members when answering specific questions and helping senior citizens find the best prescription plan for them. 
  Larry Deeds, 66, from Seely Lake, attended the Missoula event and said, "(It was) very helpful. They answered many questions and helped me select a provider. They were very pleasant and kind. Thanks to Senator Burns for providing this service."
  Clara Schoderbeck, from Helena, attended the event there and said, "My discussion was very helpful. I was going to go with a company that was not going to cover the doughnut I needed, or other things. Because I take high end drugs, I would have paid more. They saved me loads of money, loads of time, and they were so nice. Now it's done and I don't have to worry about it anymore."
  Cheryl Bloom attended the Helena event with her 87 year-old mother, Olive Bloom, and she said, "My mother and I had a very nice experience signing her up for the Medicare Part D program. (They) took time with us and each of our questions. We've deliberated on this for months, trying to decide what to do - this took care of all of it for us. We both feel it was done correctly and we have nothing to fear. What a relief!"
  Senator Burns said, "The bus tour is extraordinarily helpful in getting as many people as possible signed up for the prescription drug benefits that they deserve. I am glad that Health and Human Services Secretary Mike Leavitt decided to extend the tour to the people of Montana, and we were happy he agreed to my request that it reach seven cities across Montana. These bus tour events have brought awareness to many Montana communities about how the prescription drug benefit program can save seniors a lot of money.
   "In Billings and Bozeman, Senator Enzi and I had the opportunity to interact with hundreds of senior citizens. I am satisfied with the services we were able to provide for people at each stop. We are taking the confusion out of Medicare Part D, and it is important to get Montanans the facts about their health care coverage. Simplifying the sign-up procedure was the best way to ensure eligible people received these benefits."
  The Part D bus tour ran from Saturday, March 25 through Friday, March 31 and included enrollment events in Billings, Bozeman, Helena, Kalispell, Missoula, Great Falls and Butte. Senator Burns secured a commitment from U.S. Secretary of Health and Human Service Michael Leavitt in February to bring the bus tour to Montana.
   Contact: Derek Hunter, 202/380-8182.
 
 