SEN. BURNS ANNOUNCES TRIBAL HOUSING GRANT
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont) announced today the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) would be releasing Indian Housing Block Grant (IHBG) funds for both the Confederated Salish and Kootenai (S&K) Indian tribe in northwestern Montana and the Fort Peck Indian tribe in northeastern Montana. 
  "Ownership is the cornerstone of America, and well-built, affordable housing brings personal investment in our communities," said Burns. "There's something special about owning your own home. It provides an incentive to improve the land you own and the neighborhood you live in, so that your family can grow up in a happy, safe environment. Whether tribal or non-tribal, Montanans should be given every opportunity to own a home, and these funds help make that a reality."
  According to HUD's website, the IHBG is a formula grant that provides a range of affordable housing activities on Indian reservations and Indian areas. The block grant approach to housing for Native Americans was enabled by the Native American Housing Assistance and Self Determination Act of 1996 (NAHASDA). Eligible activities include housing development, assistance to housing developed under the Indian Housing Program, housing services for eligible families and individuals, crime prevention and safety, and model activities that provide creative approaches to solving affordable housing problems. The grant totals $8,595,691.
  "This funding helps tribal communities provide decent, safe, affordable housing for its members," said HUD Secretary Alphonso Jackson. "HUD is proud to partner with tribal governments in our efforts to provide quality housing to Native Americans."
  Senator Conrad Burns is a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, and the subcommittee on Transportation, Treasury, and Housing and Urban Development which funds the IHBG program.
  Additional information on IHBG can be found at http://www.hud.gov/offices/pih/ih/grants/ihbg.com
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183, matt_mackowiak@burns.senate.
 
 