SEN. BURNS TESTIFIES BEFORE SENATE COMMITTEE ON AGRICULTURE, NUTRITION, AND FORESTRY ON CANADIAN BEEF IMPORTS
  Sen. Burns testimony for the record before the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry:
  Mr. Chairman, I'd like to thank you for agreeing to hold this hearing today. As you know, USDA's decision to open the border to Canadian beef imports on March 7 has been controversial in my state of Montana, and many others. Our cattlemen are genuinely concerned about the impact of these regulations on their industry. Right now, thousands of cattle producers from all over the country are meeting in San Antonio, and I expect they will emerge from those meetings with some recommendations for resuming trade with Canada.  
   I appreciate Secretary Johanns' willingness to appear before this Committee so soon after his confirmation. I imagine he has heard more than enough about this border, but there are some concerns about Canadian beef that must be addressed. I have been concerned for some time about whether or not Ottawa is taking this BSE issue seriously. I know the Canadian producers are hurting, but USDA needs to look out for the interests of our domestic herds first. 
   I have three primary concerns with the regulation as it is currently written: the decision to allow beef and beef products from cattle of any age in to the country; the impact of feed ban violations; and the continued lack of export markets for U.S. beef. These issues must be addressed. I can not support the rule as it is currently written. 
   When USDA put out its proposed rule in 2003 to reopen the border, eligible beef and beef products were limited to cattle slaughtered at under 30 months. Now, the final rule has come out and that limitation has been moved. That's the wrong thing to do. We need to move forward at a reasonable pace on resuming trade, and that means limiting the available products until we are certain it is the right thing to do. That's no different than Canada is treating us right now. I realize they have proposed rules to allow more U.S cattle and beef in, but those rules will likely take some time. That means on March 7, Canada can send all the boxed beef to us that it wants, but Montana's cattle producers have access to a much more limited market. Given how recent some of Canada's feed ban violations are, we need to hold off on allowing in beef and beef products from cattle over 30 months of age at this time. 
   In general, Canada seems to have a problem with its feed ban. USDA asserts that Canada has high levels of compliance with its feed ban, USDA's own risk assessment states that in 2002, 8 percent of feed mills were not in compliance with the feed ban. We have heard reports of feed that is mislabeled and feed that contains unidentified animal parts. Given that feed is the way we think BSE is most likely transmitted, rigorous enforcement of a ruminant feed ban is a must for the resumption of trade with Canada. 
   Finally, we must open up foreign markets to U.S. beef. We have never had a domestic case of BSE, so there is no scientific reason for those borders to remain closed to our beef. Japan and Korea are key markets, and we need to get them back opened. I know we are making some progress in Japan, but more remains to be done. I sent a letter last week to Ambassador Kato, urging Japan to take the actions necessary to get the border opened up. I also understand USDA has committed to working with Japan to help restore confidence in U.S. beef, and I thank the Secretary for that. There is no good reason for our cattle producers to have such limited market access. Our beef is the best in the world, and we need to be allowed to reach global markets. 
   Again, Mr. Chairman, thank you for holding this hearing. I look forward to working with you on this important issue.
   Contact: Jennifer O'Shea, 202/224-6830. 
 
 