SEN. BURNS COMMENTS ON DOD'S QUADRENNIAL DEFENSE REVIEW, MALMSTROM, NATIONAL GUARD
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R - Mont.) today issued the following statement regarding the Defense Department's Quadrennial Defense Review (QDR), which was released today:  
   "Today the Defense Department released its Quadrennial Defense Review or QDR, which details their specific plan for restructuring the military. 
   "I've been working with senior Defense officials for months through this process, including meetings with Secretary Rumsfeld, Deputy Secretary England, Air Force Secretary Wynne and STRATCOM General Cartwright in the last two weeks alone. 
   "I support restructuring the military to meet emerging threats around the globe. I believe Montana will play a key role in the transformation of the military. Today's QDR is a "Master Plan" for the next four years, and now DOD must come to Congress for funding. I sit on the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee and will have a key role in this process. 
   "The QDR raises two important issues for Montanans: 
   1) The three "missile states" of Montana, Wyoming, and North Dakota are slated to absorb a missile cut to 450 from 500. Although not specified in the report, we believe the 50 missiles will come from Malmstrom and be used for testing over several years. This is not a completed deal, and there will be debate on this point between Congress and DOD. In order to offset the potential short-term loss for Malmstrom, I am working with the Air Force to re-open the runway and bring new missions to Malmstrom. Air Force Secretary Wynne confirmed to me the first step in this process will be taken in March, when an "Attributes Study" of Malmstrom is conducted. I believe the military will bring new missions to Malmstrom. 
   2) DOD also suggests that the Army National Guard force structure will be reduced to 106 Brigades, roughly 324,000 soldiers nationwide, down from the present force level of just under 350,000. Two weeks ago DOD assured me that the Montana Army National Guard will maintain its force structure of 2,500 soldiers. Although I am optimistic about this promise, the overall reductions that have been released for the Army National Guard across the country are unacceptable. Congress will not allow a cut in the National Guard, and I signed a letter to Defense Secretary Rumsfeld stating just that, and the letter bears the signatures of 78 senators. Cutting the National Guard when they've been stretched thin and perform miraculously over the past few years in unwise and will not happen. 
   "I believe the QDR offers opportunities for a new mission at Malmstrom. Montana has clear skies, low population, unimpeded air space, and fantastic facilities at Malmstrom that can be better utilized with new missions."
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/224-6830, 202/380-8183.
 
 