SEN. BURNS ADDRESSES CANADIAN BSE, BORDER ISSUES
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) expressed deep concern today over the final rule for reopening the Canadian Border to beef imports, especially in light of this weekend's confirmation of another cow infected with Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy (BSE). Burns, a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, and the Subcommittee on Agriculture, spoke with Agriculture Secretary Veneman last week about the rule, and will follow up with a letter this week. Senator Burns also will speak with the Secretary Designee.  
   "Bottom line is, I question whether the Canadians are serious about addressing their BSE problem," said Burns. "They need to have solid changes in place before we can open up this border, and beyond that, I'm not too comfortable with the rule as it is written. My first and foremost objective is to protect our cow/calf producers in Montana and across the Nation, and ensure consumer confidence in our food supply. I have spoken with some of my colleagues in the Senate, and will hold a hearing on these rules before they go into effect on March seventh." 
   The rule, which will be published in the Federal Register tomorrow and take effect on March 7, will allow imports of live cattle under 30 months of age, beef, and beef products. Beef and beef products will no longer be limited to animals slaughtered at under 30 months. Feeder cattle must be branded on the right hip to indicate country of origin, and must have an ear tag traceable back to the premises of origin. Cattle designated for immediate slaughter must move as a lot in a sealed container to the facility and must be slaughtered as a lot. Sweetgrass, Opheim and Raymond are among the 20 ports nationwide designated to receive Canadian exports. Burns has expressed concerns about nearly every major point of this rule, including impact on export markets, removal of the age limits on beef and beef products and enforcement of the feeding rules.
   Contact: Jennifer O'Shea, 202/224-6830. 
 
 