SENS. BURNS, CRAIG, CRAPO REQUEST CONTINUED SUPPORT FOR 'DOWNWINDERS'
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R - Mont.) today joined Sens. Larry Craig (R - Idaho) and Mike Crapo (R - Idaho) in congratulating Sen. Orrin Hatch (R - Utah) for his efforts on the Radiation Exposure Compensation Act (RECA), which he highlighted earlier this week. 
   For certain counties of Arizona, Nevada, and Utah, RECA provides financial compensation for victims of radioactive fallout resulting from above-ground nuclear testing in the 1950s. The program recently reached a milestone of $1 billion in payments for many "downwinders", uranium miners, and ore transporters. However, Montanans remain uncompensated for their radiation-related health problems, an issue Senator Burns has introduced legislation to remedy.  
   In the letter, Senator Burns urged Senator Hatch to continue supporting efforts to provide RECA compensation for the people of Montana, saying, "unfortunately, the downwinders of Montana and Idaho continue to suffer from the effects of this testing with no compensation for their pain. Several studies have demonstrated that the current downwind language in RECA does not cover some of the most impacted regions of the country." 
   A study by the National Cancer Institute indicated that out of the 25 counties that were the most impacted by downwind radiation, 15 are in Montana. Fifty-five of Montana's 56 counties suffered elevated radiation exposure levels. 
   The U.S. Department of Justice, which oversees the RECA program, reported that to date 15,108 individuals and families have received federal compensation through RECA. However, a recent finding published in American Scientist magazine estimated about 49,000 fallout cases might occur in the United States. Many of those cases are likely to occur in Montana, where between 1989 and 2003 the age-adjusted rate of thyroid cancer - the primary health impact of radioactive fallout - has increased by 127%, compared with 38% nationally. 
   Senator Burns has introduced legislation that would extend RECA coverage for "downwinders" who lived in Montana in the 1950s and whose health was affected by exposure to radiation. The letter continued, "This issue is about justice and, as you rightfully maintained, while the people of Utah waited for ten years for the Senate to take up their cause and enact RECA, justice delayed is justice denied." 
   Senator Burns is a senior member of the Appropriations committee and three-term U.S. Senator. 
   ** Letter text 
   March 3, 2006 
   Dear Senator Hatch, 
   We were encouraged to review your March 2, 2006 news release discussing the tremendous success of the Radiation Exposure Compensation Act (RECA). The people of Utah and elsewhere are fortunate that you have fought so hard to make this legislation a reality. We appreciate your personal commitment toward helping the citizens of Idaho and Montana, as well as those in your home state, and very much appreciate your willingness to help our delegations be heard from as well. We would like to thank you for your efforts, and ask that you continue to support all Americans exposed to radioactive fallout from above-ground nuclear testing. 
   In your release, you state that "each payment from RECA shows the nation's commitment to helping victims of radiation exposure. Thousands of Utahns were harmed by nuclear testing, and we can never do enough to right this. But I have fought for years to see that they receive some measure of compensation for their suffering." We could not agree with you more; but, as you know, there is still work to be done. Unfortunately, the downwinders of Montana and Idaho continue to suffer from the effects of this testing with no compensation for their pain. Several studies have demonstrated that the current downwind language in RECA does not cover some of the most impacted regions of the country. 
   To continue the fight to right this wrong, we have introduced S. 2132, which would extend RECA coverage to eligible downwinders who lived in Montana and Idaho. According to the National Cancer Institute, fifteen of the counties with the highest dose of radiation in the United States are in Montana and five are in Idaho. Meagher County, Montana was the most impacted county in the country, while Idaho's Custer, Gem, Blaine, and Lemhi Counties round out the top five. 
   We know you understand that, like the citizens of Utah, Nevada and Arizona, the people of Montana and Idaho aren't seeking an entitlement program. This issue is about justice and, as you rightfully maintained, while the people of Utah waited for ten years for the Senate to take up their cause and enact RECA, justice delayed is justice denied. 
   We congratulate you on this important milestone and respectfully request your assistance to in continuing to seek protection for Americans who have been exposed to radiation, by expanding RECA coverage to constituents in our respective states. 
   Sincerely, 
  Senators Conrad Burns, Mike Crapo, Larry Craig
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183.
 
 