SEN. BURNS PRAISES NEW, EXPANDED AIR SERVICE TO MONTANA MARKETS
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R - Mont.) today praised Delta Airlines and United Airlines for announcing direct and expanded air service to their Atlanta and Chicago Hubs.  
   On February 23, Delta announced it will expand its summer schedule and Bozeman travelers will be able to take advantage of new non-stop service between Delta's largest hub in Atlanta and Bozeman starting on June 10. The aircraft will be a Boeing 737-800 and will be offered twice weekly. The expanded service will give Montana travelers access to the more than 200 daily destinations out of Atlanta. 
   United Express will begin service to Billings and Missoula starting June 10. United Express regional partner SkyWest will add one roundtrip between Chicago O'Hare Airport and Missoula, and will also add one roundtrip between Chicago O'Hare and Billings, using 66-seat CR7 regional jets. 
   Senator Burns regularly meets with airline officials to promote Montana. Senator Burns believes Montana has a growing economy, a robust tourism industry, and as a result a lot to offer the airlines. Senator Burns understands that air service plays a vital role in economic growth of a region. 
   As a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee Burns has secured over $60 million in aviation infrastructure projects for Montana in an effort to provide the vital infrastructure needed to accommodate new and expanded air service to the state. As Senate Aviation Subcommittee Chairman, Senator Burns will also be a primary author of the upcoming Federal Aviation Reauthorization bill which expires next year. 
   Senator Burns said, "These two announcements are good news for Montana. It means increased tourism for our cities and businesses, and easier access to and from our state. I'll keep working to expand air service to and from Montana because it will fuel the economic growth in Montana, meaning more successful businesses and new jobs." 
   David Smith, President and CEO of the Bozeman Chamber of Commerce said, "It is great to have the seats back that were trimmed earlier and have new markets open up. Atlanta is a great market for Bozeman and the Yellowstone area. We really appreciate Senator Burns' efforts to boost the local economy." 
   Senator Burns is the Chairman of the Aviation subcommittee and three-term U.S. Senator.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183.
 
 