SEN. BURNS CALLS FOR IMPROVEMENTS TO AIRLINE SECURITY
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont) at a Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee hearing today urged all parties involved in airline safety, namely the air transportation industry and the Transportation Security Administration (TSA), to come together and move quickly on improvements to airline security.  
   Senator Burns voiced support for the Registered Traveler and Secure Flight programs, two initiatives designed to enhance airline security while expediting travel and cutting down on wait times. Implementation of the programs has been slow due to TSA management issues and privacy concerns. Senator Burns sees both programs as important to ensure airline security in the post-9/11 world, and feels that the obstacles that these programs have encountered can be overcome. 
   The Registered Traveler program would allow trusted passengers to voluntarily be pre-screened and registered using modern technology so that they may move through the screening process more quickly once they have arrived at the airport. The Secure Flight program would evaluate security risks associated with each passenger before they arrive at the airport and determine the need for a second screening. 
   Senator Burns said, "I understand this hasn't been an easy time for airline security. The need for safety has to be balanced with an individual's personal privacy. By bringing all sides into the discussion, allowing input from the interested parties, is not only the easiest way to address these problems, it's the only way to work them out. Everyone has their concerns, on all sides of this issue, I understand that. But the time for bickering is over, it's now time for solutions. We all have the same goal, safe air travel while maintaining individual rights. We can get it done, we have to get it done, so let's do it." 
   Witnesses at the hearing included: Mr. Edmund "Kip" Hawley, Assistant Secretary, TSA; Cathleen Berrick, Director of Homeland Security and Justice, U.S. Government Accountability Office; James May, President and Chief Executive Officer, Air Transport Association of America; Charles Barclay, President, American Association of Airport Executives; Tim Sparapani, Legislative Counsel for Privacy Rights at the American Civil Liberties Union; Bill Connors, Executive Director and Chief Operating Officer of the National Business Travel Association.
 
 