SEN. BURNS HOLDS SECOND HEARING ON HIS BILL TO MAINTAIN, INCREASE ACCESS TO TELECOMMUNICATIONS, HEALTH CARE FOR RURAL AMERICANS
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont) held a second hearing on the Universal Service Fund (USF) and his NetUSA bill today. His first hearing was on the question of who should contribute to the fund that provides affordable telecommunications to rural America. The hearing today investigated how the monies in that fund should be distributed to have the greatest impact.  
   In recent times, the amount of money paid out by the fund has increased, making it difficult for the fund to keep up with demand. Senator Burns' NetUSA bill broadens the base of contributors, shoring up the USF, while governing more prudently the distribution of the funds. This will allow advanced communication technologies, such as broadband internet and wireless communications, to reach traditionally underserved, rural areas of Montana and the country. 
   The NetUSA bill will increase broadband internet access to schools and libraries, as well as private homes. This will not only increase Montanan's access to news, information, and educational materials, it will aid in the spread and use of telemedicine. Telemedicine is essential to rural areas like Montana due to the high number of counties without practicing physicians. 
   "The issue of Telemedicine is one that is near and dear to me," said Senator Burns. "I've been the leading force on this issue in the Senate since I first set foot in Washington 18 years ago. My bill will increase access to medical help and advice for all Montanans living in rural areas." 
   Shirley Bloomfield, Vice President of Government Affairs and Association Services with National Telecommunications Cooperative Association said, "The Coalition to Keep America Connected applauds Senator Burns' leadership in addressing the need to ensure the future of a viable universal service fund. How these funds are distributed is crucial to ensuring that all Americans, regardless of where they live, have access to affordable telecommunications services. Senator Burns' NetUSA bill would help accomplish this goal for rural Americans." 
   Senator Burns said, "The Universal Service Fund keeps phone bills in Montana low, by more than $300 per year less than they otherwise would be. My NetUSA bill will keep those savings in place. It will also increase the availability and quality of cellular phone service and high-speed, broadband internet access to underserved, rural areas of Montana and the whole country. These new communication devices will let more Montanans engage in the economy of the 21st century, improving their lives. I've worked my whole career in the Senate to ensure Montanans have access to the latest technologies, and I always will. My NetUSA bill does just that."
 
 