SEN. BURNS HOLDS HEARING ON HIS BILL TO INCREASE INTERNET ACCESS, KEEP PHONE BILLS LOW, INCREASE ACCESS TO HEALTH CARE
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont) told a panel of telecommunications experts that the Universal Service Fund (USF) needs to be protected to maintain and expand access to vital communication tools of the 21st century for millions of rural Americans.  
   The USF allows for the Internet to reach sparsely populated areas, and helps maintain existing telephone service that otherwise would be too expensive for most Americans living in rural areas. 
   In Montana, the USF lowers the average annual telephone bill by hundreds of dollars. It also increases access to the Internet for rural schools which allows children an invaluable avenue to the information superhighway, something fundamental to ensuring all Americans will have access to and the ability to participate in the economy of the 21st century. 
   The USF also allows invaluable access to Telehealth, which is important to rural states like Montana, where the population is spread out over a large area and significant portions of the state are not served by health care professionals. Telehealth lets patients seek health advice, diagnoses, and treatment options from their home without having to travel long distances or otherwise go without important services common to people living in urban and suburban areas. 
   Support from the telecommunications industry has been strong. Bill Squires, Senior Vice President and General Counsel of Blackfoot Telephone Cooperative in Missoula, MT said, "Universal service ensures that consumers and businesses in Montana as well as New York have equal access to modern communications capabilities, such as health care, education and entertainment applications." 
   Senator Burns has long been a champion of increasing access to the latest technologies for all Americans through USF and other means. In addition to his USF bill, Senator Burns recently sent a letter to FCC Chairman Kevin Martin requesting the 700 MHz band for wireless communications be divided into smaller geographic service areas allowing for more, smaller wireless communication companies to compete for business and offer services to areas that would otherwise be underserved due to the expense of covering large areas. 
   The concept and letter was applauded by the Rural Telecommunications Group. Jessica Bridges, CEO of RTG, said, "RTG is pleased that Senator Burns is championing the cause of smaller licensing areas for small and rural wireless carriers." She continued that this will "...ensure that those carriers most ready and capable of providing service in rural areas utilizing the spectrum are positioned to do so." 
   Senator Burns said, "Telecommunications has grown beyond simply being a way to talk with friends and family to being a vitally important tool for health care, education, and employment. The USF is the single most important tool in ensuring all Americans have access to the latest telecommunications technology and the economic and health benefits that accompany that access. Complementing USF, access to advanced telecommunications services will also increase if the 700 MHz spectrum for wireless communications is divided into smaller areas, allowing for new, smaller competitors to offer wireless services, including broadband, to underserved, rural areas. Cellular phones and the Internet have fundamentally changed the lives of all Americans who have access to them for the better, and I am working hard to make sure that every American has access to them. I want every Montanan, every American to be able to participate in and benefit from the economy of the future."
 
 