SEN. BURNS APPLAUDS CENTERS FOR MEDICARE AND MEDICAID SERVICES DECISION TO REIMBURSE MONTANA FOR COST OF MEDICARE DRUG TRANSITION COSTS
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) today applauded the decision of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services to reimburse Montana for the administrative costs associated with transitioning seniors from Medicaid to Medicare for prescription drug coverage.  
   According to CMS, as of last week Montana had submitted paperwork for repayment of $290,000 in administrative costs through a demonstration project they recently approved and extended through March 8, 2006. These administrative costs were incurred by Montana due to initial confusion over the automatic enrollment into the new Medicare Part D prescription drug program of seniors who were previously receiving their prescription drug coverage through Medicaid. 
   Senator Burns said, "I'm very happy Montanans will see their tax dollars paid back so they don't have to shoulder the financial burden of this confusion. This is a prime example of a problem being addressed quickly by CMS, and throws a bit of a monkey wrench into the gears of those who are calling for major legislative changes to the program. CMS is promptly and successfully addressing issues as they arise. I was very happy to see the latest enrollment numbers from CMS saying more than 61,000 of Montana's seniors are now enrolled in a Medicare prescription drug plan, but there is more to be done." 
   "My office is ready to help any senior who calls asking for enrollment help, and will continue to be available until every Montana senior who has questions gets the answers they need to enroll," Burns continued. "I'm renewing my call to all elected officials to put partisan political interests aside and help seniors get the answers they need to the questions they have. Complaining has its place, when justified, but it is discouraging seniors from seeking the help some need. Help for seniors is what's needed here, not hot air. Hot air has never helped anyone."
 
 