SENS. BURNS ANNOUNCES PASSAGE OF FY06 BUDGET RECONCILIATION ACT
  Sen. Conrad Burns today announced the passage of the FY06 Budget Reconciliation Act from the floor of the Senate. "The bill we worked to pass today takes responsible steps to reduce the deficit, lower spending, and generally strengthen the economy," said Burns. "It includes some common sense provisions, and while there are certainly parts of it I wish were different, I think it's a well-balanced package overall."  
   One of the provisions included in the package is the creation of a responsible oil and gas leasing program in the Coastal Plain of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR) that will raise $2.4 billion in revenue over the next five years. "We have seen what a huge impact Katrina and Rita have had on our energy prices, and it is clear that we need to make sure we don't have all our eggs in one basket when it comes to energy," said Burns. "Diversification is critical to our national security and stability, and ANWR is an issue that has been shelved for too long. The same tired excuses have been heard over and over again--responsible development in ANWR is the right thing to do for America's Energy future, and it's time we take action." 
  Also incorporated into the Budget Reconciliation Act is language offered by Burns that will provide an additional $75 million over five years for Essential Air Service (EAS). These funds will be made available through the auction of spectrum during the national transition to digital television. "Thirty-seven states rely on EAS," said Burns, "but skyrocketing fuel prices are placing that service in jeopardy. The provision I included will increase EAS funding over the next five years and ensure that communities relying on it will continue to have acceptable transportation options." 
   Additionally, Senator Burns led the fight in the Senate to include Amtrak reauthorization as a part of the reconciliation package. The amendment, sponsored by Senators Lott, Lautenberg and Burns, authorizes appropriations for Amtrak through fiscal year 2011, and provides important reforms that strengthen passenger rail in Montana and throughout the United States. 
   "Just a few weeks ago, the Senate passed the Transportation appropriations bill, which included $1.45 billion in Amtrak funding. Today, the Senate took the next step in preserving Amtrak for the future," said Burns. "I am pleased that we could include Amtrak reauthorization as a part of this package today, proving needed reforms to Amtrak that will streamline operations and ensure that the Empire Builder keeps running through Montana." 
   The package also contains a proposal to cut $4 billion out of the nation's agricultural programs. Burns was disappointed to see the cuts come down disproportionately on America's farm and ranch community. "While I support the need to remain fiscally responsible through this process, I would like to see more balanced cuts than the ones included in this bill," said Burns. "These cuts are going to really dig into the pockets of our producers in Montana and across the country and I just cannot stand behind that. In these times of high energy and fertilizer costs, we are asking farmers to bear much more than their fair share of program cuts. I urge my colleagues to reconsider this proposal." 
   The bill must now be reconciled with a similar version, passed by the U.S. House of Representatives.
 
 