SEN. BURNS VOTES 'NO' ON AG APPROPRIATIONS BILL
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) today voted against the Agriculture Appropriations bill for FY06 in protest of the process in which the conference report was resolved and filed. Burns comments regarding COOL and his vote will be available via satellite feed today at 1:45pm MT.  
   "As a conferee of this bill, I am livid about the way in which this bill was brought to the floor," said Burns. "After initial discussions regarding the conference report, we recessed with several outstanding issues--extremely important issues that needed to be addressed by all conferees, only to find out the next day that those issues had been swept under the carpet and the conference report had been filed without any discussion of these critical matters. I have been working to address COOL for years now, and just as we were set to get the law implemented next year, the conference Chairs moved to delay it for two more years as a giveaway to the big meatpackers who don't want people to know where their beef comes from. This is just shameful." 
   Burns was also frustrated with the inaction on the Forest Service's categorical exclusions, another pending issue excluded from conference debate. Categorical exclusions are a category of small actions on federal land ranging from cutting the Capitol Christmas Tree to small forest health projects. In a recent California court ruling, Judge Singleton ruled to stop all categorical exclusions, essentially putting a hold on many projects such as prescribed burning, the creation of wildlife openings, and Healthy Forest Restoration projects. "This move has stopped many important projects from moving forward for no good reason, and this was the perfect forum to bring this issue up. Unfortunately the conference Chairs decided to neglect movement on this critical issue." 
   "It is a shame that we could not sit down and debate and vote on these issues while in conference," said Burns. "The sneaky movement by a few select members has hijacked our ability to address several important concerns, and I am extremely disappointed in how this situation was handled." 
   Burns' comments regarding COOL will be available via satellite feed today at 1:45pm MT, 3:45pm EST on: 
   AMC 1 
  Transponder 20-V 
  Downlink 4100 
  Audio 6.2/6.8 
  C-Band 
   His comments will also be available on the web at www.burns.senate.gov, and via telephone at 1-800-545-1267, box 333.
   Contact: Jennifer O'Shea, 202/224-6830.
 
 