SEN. BURNS SUPPORTS PASSPORT AMENDMENT TO DELIVER AFFORDABLE, SECURE NORTHERN BORDER COMMERCE
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R - Mont.) is supporting S. 3223, the Common Sense Cross-Border Travel and Security Act of 2006, an amendment to the Border Security bill currently being debated on the Senate floor as part of comprehensive Immigration reform. Senator Burns is cosponsoring the amendment with Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND). 
  Senator Burns said, "With 500 million people crossing our borders each year, over 60% of which are not U.S. citizens, we need to know who is coming into our country. We must also take a common-sense approach to this issue, and take into account the needs of frequent travelers, especially those who reside in border communities. Folks in Montana who want to travel to Canada for the day to shop or visit relatives need to be able to cross the border. That is why I am a cosponsor of this amendment, which has come directly from the concerns I've heard from Montanans. It will address critical issues of cost and accessibility of passport cards currently being developed by the Department of State. We must protect the integrity of the border while allowing commerce and other vital interests to occur between the U.S. and Canada."
  Passports or other tamper-proof identification documents became a requirement for cross-border travel due to the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004. The U.S. Departments of Homeland Security and State are developing a "passport card" which contains the same information as a passport but is more user-friendly and easier to carry. This amendment sets a price ceiling of $20 for these "passport cards", exempts children under the age of 18 from the requirement, and establishes a system of free "day passes" for Americans crossing the northern land border who certify that they were unable to apply in advance for passport cards.
  Senator Burns believes this amendment is only the beginning of striking the right balance between facilitating honest northern border travel and commerce and securing the northern border in a post 9-11 world. The requirements in the 2004 Intelligence Reform Act are set to be implemented by 2008, and Senator Burns is committed to ensuring the needs of Montanans are met with regard to the northern border. In January, Senator Burns sent a letter the Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff outlining the concerns he has heard from Montanans on this issue and requesting the issues be addressed as implementation proceeds.
  Former Montana Congressman Ron Marlenee said, "The attempt by Senator Burns to develop a substitute for a mandated passport is an indication that he understands the importance of trade and cultural exchanges with our Canadian friends. His fellow Senators need to recognize that Conrad's state has more border and more port crossings than any other state. Hopefully, his seniority and logic will prevail."
  Senator Burns is a senior member of the Senate Commerce Committee and a three term U.S. Senator.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183, matt_mackowiak@burns.senate.gov.
 
 