SEN. BURNS INTRODUCES $3.9 BILLION AGRICULTURE DISASTER RELIEF PACKAGE AS PART OF EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R - Mont.) announced today he will include a $3.9 billion Agriculture Disaster package today in a Senate Appropriations Committee markup of emergency supplemental appropriations for the War on Terror and Hurricane Katrina Relief. The amendment will provide an energy assistance payment to producers, equal to 30% of their direct payment, as well as assistance for crop and livestock losses due to weather-related disasters. Also included in the package is funding for the ewe lamb retention program, which assists sheep producers in rebuilding their herds. 
  Senator Burns said, "Today, we have a chance to secure some much needed relief for farmers and ranchers across the country. In Montana, we are finally seeing some moisture after years of drought, but the impact of skyrocketing fuel and fertilizer prices is causing an economic disaster in our small towns. I spoke with producers all across the Hi-Line just two weeks ago, and everyone I talked to said they were using at least a third less fertilizer because prices are so high. The disaster package that I am working to secure today will provide to every eligible farmer a 30% supplemental direct payment to help manage the costs of fuel and fertilizer. In addition, for those who are eligible, there will be crop disaster and livestock assistance as well.
  "I have some real concerns about the budget in general, and this package is expensive. However, governing is about priorities, and we need to address real emergencies like this, using federal dollars wisely to stimulate economic growth. This assistance doesn't just go into someone's pocket - it circulates through the local economy and helps small businesses keep their doors open, serving as a shot in the arm to farm families and rural economies that are struggling with high input costs. Helping producers manage unpredictable spikes in input costs - increases that they have no ability to pass on, like many other industries can - supports our farm families and local communities, and I think that is a wise investment in Montana. I intend to do everything I can to see this assistance delivered to Montana producers."
  Senator Burns previously co-sponsored a similar package as a standalone bill with 24 other Senators. However Senators Burns and Dorgan decided this amendment was appropriate due to the damage done by Hurricane Katrina to farmers and ranchers everywhere, driving up fuel and fertilizer costs.
  Senator Burns is a senior member of the powerful Senate Appropriations Committee, which will consider the amendment and the emergency supplemental package, as well as a former agricultural broadcaster.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183, matt_mackowiak@burns.senate.gov.
 
 