SEN. BURNS' VETERANS EDUCATION AND TRAINING ACT PASSES SENATE
  Late Thursday night the Senate passed legislation championed by Sen. Conrad Burns (R - Mont.) to deliver expanded G.I. Bill education benefits to veterans. Major components of S. 2416, the Veterans Education and Training (VET) Act were passed unanimously as part of S. 2694, a separate piece of veterans legislation. The legislation now requires passage by the House to become law. 
   "I am pleased we can deliver expanded job training for our Veterans," said Senator Burns. "I have worked hard for many months to pass this legislation in the Senate and will work hard to ensure House passage this year. As a veteran, I know we can do better in aiding our brave men and women when they return home from service, transition back to private life and find employment in the career fields where their skills are needed."
   The VET Act, amended from its original form to remain budget neutral, will expand eligibility to accelerated G.I. bill benefits for veterans in the transportation, energy, hospitality, or construction career fields. These four career fields have been identified by the U.S. Department of Labor as likely to add large numbers of new jobs or require new job training skills in the coming years. Additionally, the legislation was amended from its original form to take effect Oct. 1, 2007 and sunset September 30, 2011. Senator Burns testified on behalf of this legislation before the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee on June 8.
   Under the Montgomery G.I. Bill, the Department of Veterans' Administration (VA) currently provides accelerated benefits to assist our service men and women in transitioning to the civilian job market. Through this program, the VA makes short-term, high-cost training programs more attractive to veterans by paying benefits in a lump sum and by covering up to 60% of the cost of some educational programs. However, this program is now only available to men and women who seek training in high-tech programs.
   One specific way this legislation will directly benefit veterans can be seen in job training. For example one standard truck driver training program in Montana lasts 4 to 5 weeks and costs $4,000. Unfortunately, many Veterans are unable to afford this training, even with the $1,034 in G.I. Bill benefits that they may currently receive for this training. However, under the revised accelerated benefits program called for in the VET Act, that same Veteran would be eligible for 60% or $2,400 of the costs of the training.
   Senator Burns served in the United States Marine Corps from 1955-1957 and is a senior member of the Senate Defense and Military Construction Appropriation Subcommittees.
 
 