SEN. BURNS URGES SENATE FINANCE COMMITTEE TO ADVANCE CBP NOMINEE TO MOVE AIR WING FORWARD
  Today Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) urged the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Senate Finance Committee to quickly review the nomination of W. Ralph Basham to be Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP). 
  In a letter to Chairman Charles Grassley (R - Iowa) and Ranking Member Max Baucus (D - Mont.), Senator Burns wrote, "As a representative from the state with the longest border with Canada, I encourage you to consider the impact any delay in the consideration of this nomination could pose to the (Northern Border) Air Wing's operations, which include important Homeland Security efforts."
  The resulting plan put forth by CBP, which oversees the Air Wing operations, expects the Air Wing branch in Great Falls to be operational by September 2006. While CBP has moved forward with choosing a location and other tasks related to the establishment of this Air Wing branch, Senator Burns believes the official plan cannot move "full speed ahead" until a CBP Commissioner has been approved by the Senate. 
  Senator Burns said, "Given how important the Air Wing is to Montana, I strongly urge the Committee to expeditiously review this nomination so that the Great Falls branch of the Northern Border Air Wing will not be unnecessarily delayed. I look forward to working with the Committee on this issue."
  The Northern Border Air Wing would patrol Montana's northern border with Canada for illegal activity, making it an integral part of our national security. In addition, these operations are expected to create more than 60 jobs in the Great Falls community and bring other economic benefits to the state. 
  Senator Burns secured $18.3 million in the Fiscal Year 2006 Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Appropriations Act toward establishing the Northern Border Air Wing in Great Falls.
  Senator Burns is a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183, matt_mackowiak@burns.senate.gov.
 
 