SEN. BURNS ANNOUNCES OVER $24,000 BYRNE JAG GRANT FOR HELENA, LEWIS AND CLARK COUNTY
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) today announced that the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) awarded $24,486 in Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance (JAG) Program funding to the city of Helena and the surrounding Lewis and Clark County. The city of Helena and Lewis and Clark County will equally divide the grant funding. 
  This $24,000 grant will be used to support a portion of two fulltime sworn officers' salaries, overtime, benefits, and maintenance, and operation costs. The officers will be responsible for responding to drug-related trafficking, manufacturing, disruption, and dismantling of drug producing organizations, which will contribute significantly to the overall success of the task force.
  The Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) Program will assist Helena and Lewis and Clark County through a broad range of activities to prevent and control crime, based on Helena's local needs and conditions. The resources that this grant supplies can be used for state or local initiatives, technical assistance, training, personnel, equipment, supplies, contractual support, and information systems for criminal justice precautions.
  Montana faces an increasing presence of drug-related crime and abuse. Problems with methamphetamine are rising across the state. The officers receiving these grants will help to stop the urgent crime issues in their jurisdictions.
  Senator Burns said today, "Illegal drug use, and especially the abuse of methamphetamine, is a serious problem that is among the most difficult challenges facing our law enforcement officials. These funds for Helena and Lewis and Clark County will go a long way toward helping them do their jobs, making Montana safer for us all. I am proud to support these efforts."
  Senator Burns is a three-term U.S. Senator and a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee and is founder of the Senate Anti-Meth Caucus.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183, matt_mackowiak@burns.senate.gov.
 
 