SPENDING BILL PASSES SENATE; SEN. BURNS CONCERNED ABOUT PRICE TAG
  Echoing the concerns of Montanans fed up with government spending, Sen. Burns called on his colleagues to restore fiscal discipline to the Congress, as he voted to send an emergency spending bill to conference with the House, 74-24.  
  In a statement last week on the emergency supplemental for the War on Terror and Hurricane Katrina, Senator Burns said "Congress can not continue to spend without restraint, and this Administration can not continue to rely on the use of emergency supplementals to circumvent the Congressional budget process. The President has asked for $92.2 billion, and I think that - at a minimum - we need to work our way back to that number in conference. We need to take a careful look at all of the President's requests, as well as the priorities that other Senators have, and make a decision as to whether or not these provisions are truly emergency needs."
  Senator Burns noted that addressing the impacts of Hurricane Katrina is important, but that the ripple effects of the hurricanes can't be ignored. One of those ripple effects has been the impact that fuel and fertilizer price spikes have had on production agriculture. Burns introduced an amendment to the emergency spending bill along with Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND) to provide emergency aid to the nation's producers.
  "As important as this emergency ag funding is," said Senator Burns. "We need to make some tough choices in conference to not only include this desperately needed aid for our producers, but stay within the fiscal boundaries set at the $92.2 Billion mark. That's going to take a sharp pencil, but I think we can get there and I'll have a seat at the table. We can't ignore the impact this is having on agriculture. Every time we go to the pumps these days, we see what happens when America becomes dependent on foreign oil. I don't want to see a day when we have ignored agriculture to the point that we are also dependent on foreign food."
  The primary purpose of the Supplemental Appropriations Bill is to address emergency needs related to keeping American secure and addressing unanticipated natural disasters. The House version of the bill passed March 16. Now the two versions of the bill must be reconciled in a House-Senate Conference Committee. The President has said he will veto this legislation if it comes to his desk above $92.2 billion, exclusive of funding for avian flu. The Senate version is already well over $100 billion.
  In addition to assistance for agriculture, the Senate package also includes a provision to help deployed service members exercise their right to vote. Including the military voting provision in this bill will ensure that America's soldiers stationed overseas are able to participate in the 2006 elections. 
  Senator Burns is the Chairman of the Senate Interior Appropriations Committee and is expected to be a conferee as the Senate and House debate the Emergency Supplemental Appropriation in Conference.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183, matt_mackowiak@burns.senate.gov.
 
 