SEN. BURNS FIGHTS TO PROTECT RURAL SCHOOLS
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) introduced "The Rural Schools Geography Act" today to help protect rural schools. Under the No Child Left Behind Act (NCLB), schools that do not meet Adequate Yearly Progress (AYP) requirements for two consecutive years must provide their students the option to transfer to another school, a requirement does not take the distances of rural communities into account. Sen. Burns' legislation would not require local education agencies to provide a student with the option to transfer to another school if providing the option is impractical due to: the distance to be traveled, a geographical barrier or hazard, or an unusually high cost of travel.  
   "Sometimes this sort of commute may be necessary, but this legislation makes this decision a matter for the state to decide, instead of the politicians back in Washington," said Burns. "Our rural students already travel long distances for their education, and requiring that they trek to alternative schools may mean even longer commutes and more dangerous routes. This would leave our students with little time for homework, family and extracurricular activities, and prevent them participating in these important experiences. These longer commutes would also pose problems during the long Montana winters, making these journeys much more difficult or even impossible at times. This legislation clarifies what is feasible for school transfers and gives states like Montana the ability to protect our schools and students by taking our rural landscapes into account." 
   Dave Puyear, Executive Director of the Montana Rural Education Association said: "The Rural Schools Geography Act introduced by Senator Burns addresses a gaping hole that exists in No Child Left Behind (NCLB) and the reauthorization of ESEA. The fact is that 'one size does NOT fit all,' and places like Montana are at a distinct disadvantage in terms of meeting the requirements of these Federal requirements because of the tremendous geographical barriers that we face. Senator Burns' legislation will directly address a number of the most difficult challenges that rural and small schools face as a result of NCLB and ESEA in dealing with wide open spaces, and sparsely populated areas." 
   In Montana 85% of schools meet the AYP in 2004. If a school does not meet the AYP, there are valuable supplemental educational services offered besides school transfers, including after school programs and distance learning. 
   Burns spoke on the Senate floor today regarding his legislation: 
   "In Montana, we have some of the finest teachers and brightest minds in the country. Accordingly, it is imperative that Congress continues to hear the needs and concerns of America's rural education communities."
   Contact: Jennifer O'Shea, 202/224-6830.
 
 