SEN. BURNS AMENDMENT WILL MAKE VOTING FOR MILITARY SERVING OVERSEAS EASIER
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) has inserted an amendment into the defense supplemental appropriations bill that will streamline voting for military personnel serving the country overseas. The amendment would establish the Interim Voting Assistance System (IVAS) that would allow local governments to upload military absentee ballots to a secure Department of Defense (DoD) server where soldiers could download, print, fill out and return by mail, saving a significant amount of time over the current system.  
  The current system requires military personnel mail in their request for an absentee ballot, then the local government to mail one back to them. With many of our military men and women serving overseas, this process can be a long and frustrating one. Many times mail is misdirected or arrives too late for soldiers to be able to return it in the legally allotted time. Senator Burns, a former Marine, has been the leader on reforming military absentee voting.
  In March, Senator Burns wrote a letter, signed by 16 other Senators, to Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld outlining the problems with the current system, one that has remained virtually unchanged since World War II.
  The IVAS system will not only mainstream the ballot process for military personnel, it will save local governments money. The amendment provides $5.82 million in funding from the DoD to cover the cost of the plan, which will then save local governments the time and money for postage normally spend on sending out the ballots.
  Senator Burns said, "When I read the GAO report that our men and women fight in the War on Terror overseas were four times more like to be disenfranchised than those of at home they are fighting to protect, I was outraged. I started looking into ways to make that a thing of the past. The right to vote is one of our most precious freedoms those who would seek to do harm to this country would destroy. It's just plain wrong that those risking their lives to ensure our freedoms here at home, would have such difficulty in exercising that freedom themselves. This amendment will create a system that will make voting for our service men and women a lot easier. Considering many soldiers are regularly deployed and redeployed from one location to another rather quickly sometimes, they won't have to wait for their ballot to catch up with them in the mail. I plan to work and fight hard to ensure this amendment is in the final Conference Report of the Supplemental Defense Appropriations bill. Anything less would be a disservice to the hard work and sacrifices they make on a daily basis in service to our great country.
   Contact: Derek Hunter, 202/224-6137, 202/380-8182.
 
 