SEN. BURNS CALLS ATTENTION TO METH PROBLEM ON RESERVATIONS AT SENATE INDIAN AFFAIRS COMMITTEE HEARING
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R - Mont.) testified this morning at a Senate Indian Affairs committee hearing on the problem of methamphetamine (meth) on Indian reservations in this country. 
   In the committee hearing, Senator Burns said, "The problem of meth is compounded in Indian country due to a number of factors. First, the poverty on the reservations is much higher than on non-reservation land. Given these hardships, the number of people seeking treatment for drug and alcohol abuse exceeds the capacity of treatment facilities. In addition, treatment for meth addiction often takes place off the reservation, meaning that in order to receive help, Montana 's Indian youth are taken out of the communities that they know and are placed in facilities dominated by non-tribal members."  
   Today on the Senate floor, Senators Burns and Wayne Allard (R - Colo.) are working to pass an amendment to require the Attorney General, Homeland Security Secretary, and the President to work together to address the influx of methamphetamine from superlabs in Mexico. Senator Burns believes these superlabs are a major reason why methamphetamine use is on the rise in the U.S. and that the immigration debate offers a positive opportunity to secure our border, and as a result, gain better control of illegal narcotics coming in to this country. 
  Senator Burns said, "We can prevent children from using (meth) through tough TV and radio ads, crack down on sellers, and treat addicts, but if our border is not secure, the product will come through and we will be unable to save our communities and families from the scourge of meth." 
  The meth epidemic is gaining national attention since Senator Burns hosted a National Town Hall meeting on meth in Washington in January, which included testimony from Attorney General Alberto Gonzales. Since then, Senator Burns has held meetings with law enforcement, health officials, and local leaders on the problem of meth in Missoula, Great Falls, and soon in Billings . 
  Last night, ABC's Nightline aired a segment on the Montana Meth Project, which has attempted to change consumer attitudes through effective prevention and awareness campaigns. A second round of the Montana Meth Project's advertising campaign will begin later this month. Senator Burns introduced S. 2315, the Meth Awareness and Prevention Act of 2006, legislation that would create a $25 million competitive grant program for local, county, and state entities across the country that will use effective education campaigns and provide a dollar-for-dollar private match. This bill has been endorsed by the Montana Association of Counties. 
   Senator Burns fought for passing the Combat Meth Act as part of the Patriot Act reauthorization, which has given law enforcement the tools they need to crack down harder on suppliers and users and make the ingredients for meth harder to obtain. 
  In addition, in March Senator Burns restored over $900 million for Byrne / JAG funding in an amendment to the Budget Resolution. This funding was critical for law enforcement and was supported by the National Sheriffs Association, the National Police and Peace Officers Association, and the National Narcotics Coalition. 
  Senator Burns said, "As I've said before, we have a meth epidemic in this country and it's hitting Montana hard. As founder of the Senate Anti-Meth Caucus, I'm here to tell you that we're fighting back. We're shutting down superlabs, we're pushing pseudoephedrine behind the counter, we're targeting the unique circumstances with meth on Indian reservations, and I have a bill that would attack meth from the prevention angle nationwide." 
  Senator Burns is a senior member of the powerful Senate Appropriations Committee and is founder of the Senate Anti-Meth Caucus with over 30 members.
 
 