SEN. BURNS ANNOUNCES MAJOR LABOR DEPARTMENT FUNDING FOR DISPLACED WORKERS AT MONTANA TUNNELS MINE
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R - Mont.) today announced he received notification from the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) that the Montana Department of Labor and Industry has been awarded a $637,000 grant to provide direct employment aid for the displaced workers at the Montana Tunnels open-pit mine in Jefferson City, located about 35 miles south of Helena. 
  The range of services and training that will be made available to the mine's former employees will include job search assistance, relocation assistance, work tools and clothing, tuition, books and supplies. The funding will also provide short-term and long-term occupational training in informational technology, medical coding, and hazardous materials.
  Senator Burns, a former small business owner, said, "I feel for the good folks at that mine and I understand they need help getting back on their feet. We see a real need for Montana and respond, giving them a hand up, not a handout. This funding will help these folks gain skills, improve their education and successfully seek new employment. Where we can, we must help good people when they need a little help and we're doing just that."
  The DOL grant application was filed through the Workforce Investment Act with National Emergency Grant funds approved for $637,000, with $238,872 released initially.
  "The grant announced today will help these workers prepare for new careers in industries that offer growth and opportunities," said Labor Secretary Elaine Chao. "Training for jobs in information technology, health care and environmental cleanup will help them thrive in the 21st century economy."
  The Montana Tunnels open-pit mine, operated by Apollo Gold Corp., of Colorado, suspended activity in October 2005 due to the consistent slides along a pit wall which seriously damaged equipment. As a result of the operation suspension, the manager of the mine temporarily laid off more than half of the 202 employees.
  Senator Burns is a senior member of the Senate Small Business and Commerce, Science and Transportation Committees.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183, matt_mackowiak@burns.senate.gov.
 
 