FOREST SERVICE EXTENDS GALLATIN FOREST TRAVEL PLAN COMMENT PERIOD TO AUG. 1
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) announced today he was glad to see the Gallatin National Forest extended the comment period on their travel plan to August 1, 2005. "The extension will give Montanans a chance to spend more time looking over the travel plan and give the Forest Service detailed information about road and trail closures that don't make sense."  
   "Our National Forests and backcountry trails are a huge draw for Montana. They're a large part of the unique lifestyle we value and bring tourism dollars and provide jobs in the state," said Burns. "With Montana's economy becoming more dependent on tourism, I am concerned limiting OHV and snowmobile use could have a significant negative effect on this segment of our economy. If a road or trail needs to be closed, I expect the Forest Service to explore all the options for the road, such as seasonal gate closures that will allow public access at least part of the time. Again, permanent closures that preclude future access should be the last option." 
   In a letter penned to Becki Heath, Gallatin National Forest Supervisor, U.S. Sen. Conrad Burns addressed his concerns with the forest's proposed travel management plan. Citing constituent requests, and the need for more complete data on environmental, economic and social implications, Burns suggested an extension of the public comment period through the latter parts of the summer. A copy of Burns' letter is attached. 
   Becki Heath 
  Forest Supervisor 
  Gallatin National Forest 
  P.O. Box 130 
  Bozeman, MT 59771 
   Dear Becki, 
   I want to commend you and your staff for how you have listened to the communities on this difficult issue. Through region-wide listening sessions, you and your staff reached out and spent the time to explain the travel plan. That's how the system should work. Now it's time to take what's been said at these meetings and insert it into the travel plan. 
   Since I've been Senator, my philosophy for federal land management in Montana is these lands need to be managed for multiple-use and that includes Off Highway Vehicle (OHV) use. However, it seems every time a new travel plan is prepared by a federal agency, it results in a significant number of roads and trails closed to OHV users. 
   With this perspective for Montana's federal lands, I've reviewed the Forest's travel management plan, and I have the following comments on the Draft Environmental Impact Statement (DEIS). 
   There is a lack of complete economic data to determine the impacts of implementing the draft preferred alternative compared to the no-action alternative. I realize specific economic data may be tough to display, but it is difficult to accept even a draft preferred alternative without discussion of the economic impacts. With Montana's economy becoming more dependent on tourism, I am concerned limiting OHV and snowmobile use could have a significant negative effect on this segment of our economy. 
   I believe the DEIS needs to address the social impacts of the draft preferred alternative. The proposed decrease in OHV access severely impacts the traditional forest users and especially our seniors, retirees, and physically challenged Montana citizens. Because of this potential impact, I want to be sure that summer residents that use the Forest will have time to provide comments on the travel plan. 
   I am concerned that 2 years of GPS inventory data collected by the forest has not been analyzed or made available to the public. The public needs to review the data so they can make informed comments on the travel plan. 
   Another issue that needs clarified is whether the roads acquired through acquisition and easements have been identified on the forest maps used to develop the draft preferred alternative. 
   I believe another area where additional information would be helpful is a clear explanation of what areas are closed for other resource needs. For example, how do the lynx and grizzly bear guidelines affect what roads and trails can remain open? What roads need to be closed due to commitments made in previous environmental assessments? These disclosures would help the public provide meaningful comments on the travel plan. 
   Trail closures to stock during periods of wet weather; I believe this is too vague and will lead to user groups providing conflicting information to the forest when trails should be opened. I trust horse user groups, like the Back Country Horsemen, to have the common sense when to use a trail in the spring. 
   I am concerned that eliminating some trailheads to concentrate use will tax the remaining trailheads beyond their current capacity. I believe no trailheads should be closed until the Forest Service, based on public input, has added the public parking and horse corrals at the remaining trailheads. 
   One of the justifications made by the federal government for Yellowstone National Park snowmobile restrictions, was there were snowmobile areas available outside the park. Yet, this plan closes over 330,000 acres of the forest under the draft preferred alternative. Is there a cumulative effects analysis to address the social and economic impacts of the reduced snowmobile opportunities in the Greater Yellowstone Area? 
   Another concern is the tone of the document. A subjective issue like "noise" is a significant issue. How many people commented that noise was not an issue? "Quiet trail users" is used to describe non-motorized users, while "noise and odor" is used to describe motorized users. There are comments that non-motorized users trail experience is adversely impacted by motorized users, yet there is no discussion how motorized users are impacted by non-motorized users. 
   I need further explanation why fire/fuels management is a non-significant issue. Montana is still in a serious drought and the Forest Service continues to request more funding for hazardous fuel reduction. The travel plan should include a discussion that clearly addresses not only the long-term access needs for fire suppression and hazardous fuel reduction, but noxious weed control, community emergency services, local fuel wood and small wood product needs. 
   If a road or trail needs to be closed, I expect the Forest Service to explore all the options for the road, such as seasonal gate closures that will allow public access at least part of the time. Again, permanent closures that preclude future access should be the last option. 
   My office has received a large number of calls asking for more opportunities to comment on the travel plan. With the draft plan proposing a significant number of road and trail restrictions, I believe extending the comment period 60 days from May 20 to July 20, 2005 would give the public time to finalize their comments on the draft plan. 
   Sincerely, 
   Conrad Burns 
  United States Senator.
 
 