SEN. BURNS ANNOUNCES DOT GRANT FOR KALISPELL BYPASS
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) announced today the release of $581,000 in grant funding from the U.S. Department of Transportation for the U.S. 93 Kalispell Bypass. The funding was made available in the fiscal year 2005 appropriations bill, but release of funds was delayed until final passage of the Highway Bill. The Bypass is intended to divert traffic around downtown for traffic heading north and south.  
   Of the project, Kalispell City Manager Jim Patrick said, "Due to the assistance and hard work of Senator Burns we were able to not only get the project started but to the point of making this 50 year old dream a reality. The Kalispell Bypass is the next critical step we need to take as a city because it alleviates the current traffic congestion facing downtown Kalispell. But it not only helps Kalispell it goes a long way in moving traffic through out the entire valley by taking truck traffic off the current highway system. We thank Senator Burns for his dedication to this project". 
   The Kalispell Bypass project was undertaken in 1992 in response to the decision to build out Highway 93 from Somers to Whitefish in order to relieve truck traffic and traffic congestion as a result of having a 5 lane highway right through the heart of Kalispell. This will be an on-going project but actual construction is expected to begin in approximately 3 years. As a Senior Member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Senator Burns has now secured a total of $11.7 Million in funding for the Kalispell Bypass Project. 
   Senator Burns said, "The Flathead Valley is one of the fastest growing areas is our state. With Flathead County pushing 82,000, this project is important to making sure that the area, and most importantly the City of Kalispell, is ready for the demands of continued growth." 
   Senator Burns is a senior member of the both the Senate Appropriations Committee and the Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee.
   Contact: James (JP) Pendleton, 406/252-0550.
 
 