SENATE AGRICULTURE COMMITTEE COMMITS TO BORDER HEARING AT SEN. BURNS REQUEST
  This week Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) expressed his ongoing concerns regarding the recent announcement by the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) that Canada has been designated a "minimal risk region" for BSE, allowing Canada to expand beef exports to the U.S. beginning on March 7, 2005. Burns, a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, remains concerned that this rule has some significant problems. After discussions with the new chairman of the Senate Agriculture Committee, Sen. Saxby Chambliss (R-GA), Burns received a commitment that the committee will hold a hearing on the border issue "very early in this year" to address and educate members of the committee and the Senate about the "severity" of the issue.  
   "The flaws in this rule could harm not only our Montana producers, but also consumer confidence and our international markets. I'm not going to support the Administration's decision to open the U.S.-Canadian border to increased Canadian exports," said Burns. "I plan to watch this issue very closely in the coming weeks, and I want to hear from folks in the state about their ideas and concerns regarding re-opening the Canadian border." 
   In a letter this week to USDA Secretary Ann Veneman, Senator Burns outlined some of the problems with the regulations that would open the border, including Canada's commitment to enforcing its feed ban and USDA's decision to allow imports of beef and beef products from cattle slaughtered at 30 months or older. 
   "With a hearing on the horizon, I want to make sure I hear the voices of all Montanans, specifically those closely tied to the industry, and how they feel about this situation," Burns added. 
   Those who would like to voice their opinions regarding the border situation with Senator Burns can do so by calling his Billings office at (406) 252-0550 or toll free at (800) 344-1513.
   Contact: Jennifer O'Shea, 202/224-6830.
 
 