SEN. BURNS QUESTIONS USDA'S MAD COW DISEASE EVALUATION PROCEDURE
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) today expressed his disappointment in the USDA's recent handling of two BSE tests, when the Department deviated from protocol and disclosed initial test results prior to verifying their accuracy. He went on to discuss the danger involved in relying on undependable test results, in light of the long-term market depressions that could arise from their publication.  
   "This sort of irresponsible behavior has twice caused Montana's cattle markets to plummet, throwing our farmers and ranchers into a tailspin," said Burns. "Putting out unconfirmed information when we know the tests have alarmingly high rates of false positives is plain old dangerous to the economy." 
   The letter, directed to Secretary Ann Veneman, went on to request a reconsideration of the BSE screening tests currently in use in the United States and an evaluation of those used internationally. A copy of Senator Burns' letter is attached below. 
   Dear Secretary Veneman: 
   I am deeply disappointed in USDA's handling of two recent inconclusive tests for BSE. While I applaud the Department's commitment to rapid screening, I am concerned that the release of unsubstantiated test results causes producers and consumers unnecessary worry. 
   According to the Department's published BSE response plan, public notification occurs after presumptive positive BSE test results have been confirmed. In an apparent departure from procedure, USDA twice disclosed initial test results prior to confirming their accuracy. These reckless actions caused cattle markets to plummet, throwing our producers into a tailspin. 
   When you and I met in June to discuss the controversy surrounding the improper imports of Canadian beef, you assured me that the food supply was never in jeopardy, and that the imports were nothing more than a "process failure". Less than a month later, USDA has not once but twice failed to follow proper public notification procedures. I am confident in the safety of our food, but I am growing increasingly concerned at the Department's ability to follow its own policies and procedures. 
   Furthermore, I am troubled by USDA's apparent complacency at the rate of false positives in its licensed BSE tests. My understanding is that the Department expects roughly 30-40 false positives in this round of rapid screening tests. The market volatility caused by these announcements leaves our cattle producers wondering what each new day will bring. While the impact on the markets has thus far been short-lived, continued confusion could cause long-term market depressions. I see no reason why USDA should fuel this type of volatility. Not only does the uncertainty harm our producers, but it opens the door to market manipulation. I know that the Commodity Futures Trading Commission is closely monitoring the markets, but USDA needs to do its part to end these wild market fluctuations. 
   I appreciate the Department's efforts to secure our food supply in a timely and transparent manner, but I urge you to stop disclosing unconfirmed information that sends shockwaves through our markets. Additionally, I ask you to seriously consider the reliability of your tests and to rigorously evaluate BSE screening tests used internationally that may offer more accurate results. USDA must be measured and responsible in its actions, so that producers and consumers can be confident that the Department can do its job. I look forward to meeting with you soon to discuss this troubling issue further.
 
 