SEN. BURNS ANNOUNCES NEW SIKORSKY PLANT IN BOZEMAN
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R - Mont.) today announced that Sikorsky Aircraft has selected Bozeman for opening a new engineering design center in Bozeman. Sikorsky will team with a third party engineering services provider to open the facility. The design center will employ 40 engineers by the end of 2006 and may expand in the future if the need arises.  
   Senator Burns said, "I'm excited Sikorsky has selected Bozeman for its new design facility. I've met many times with Sikorsky over the past few years to promote Montana for new facilities. Bozeman is a thriving city and this new Sikorsky design center will be a great opportunity to keep MSU Bozeman graduates in town after graduation. I'll continue to promote Montana for new and expanding business." 
   David Smith, President and CEO of the Bozeman Chamber of Commerce, "The most important part of this is these are high tech, high paying jobs and Sikorsky is an international company with a great reputation in the engineering field. We're aware that Senator Burns has had many meetings with Sikorsky over the last several years and appreciate his work in helping our economy grow. This is the same model that several other companies in Bozeman have used, like EDS and Bacterin, RightNow Technologies, and Zoot Enterprises, who started with a small group of engineers and are now very solid corporate citizens of the Gallatin valley." 
   Engineers at the center will perform targeted airframe and subsystem detail design activities to support anticipated growth of several Sikorsky military and commercial programs and related aftermarket services. 
   Sikorsky is currently seeking and reviewing proposals from several engineering services providers to set up and operate the facility. The selected provider will be announced in late April, with operations scheduled to begin in July with approximately 20 engineers. The specific location within Bozeman is currently under evaluation. 
   The design center will support Sikorsky's aftermarket, commercial, and U.S. government business. Sikorsky Aircraft, based in Stratford, Conn., is a subsidiary of United Technologies Corp. (NYSE:UTX). 
   Senator Burns is a senior member of the Defense Appropriations subcommittee and three-term U.S. Senator.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183.
 
 