SEN. BURNS TO FIGHT COST INCREASES FOR VETERANS, CUTS TO AGRICULTURE BUDGET
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R - Mont.) today called for no cuts to agriculture programs and rejected outright proposed cost increases for veteran's heath care. The proposals were included as a part of the President's Fiscal Year 2007 Budget Proposal. The Senate Budget Committee is expected to consider the President's budget request this week.  
   In a letter to Committee Chairman Judd Gregg and Ranking Member Kent Conrad, Burns protested the Administration's proposed plan to charge veterans nearly $800 million more for their health care costs in 2007. Burns, a former Marine, objects to a proposal that would require some veterans to pay a $250 enrollment fee for access to the VA health system, as well as more than double prescription drug co-payments. He urged the Budget Committee not to include cost increases in this year's budget package. 
   Senator Burns said, "The service our military provides this country is invaluable, especially in a post 9/11 world. Promises made to them must be kept. Our Military serves honorably, not for glory but for love of country. They should be treated with the respect they deserve and have earned. As a Veteran myself, I look at these fine men and women with a sense of awe at what they've accomplished, how they rise to a challenge when they are called upon, and how they stand ready do to it time and time again. We owe them more than we could ever repay, so I will not stand for cutting anything we've already promised them." 
   In a second letter to Chairman Gregg, Burns expressed his opposition to the Administration's proposals to cut the U.S. Department of Agriculture's budget, including reductions in commodity payments relied upon by Montana's family farmers. Understanding the need for fiscal discipline and the necessity of reducing spending, Burns nonetheless argued that now is not the time to yank the safety net out from American producers: "Fuel and fertilizer costs remain high, and many producers are seeing their entire commodity payment going simply to cover the increase in input prices," Burns said. "With a Farm Bill on the horizon and the possibility of WTO trade deals still out there, cutting farm programs now hamstrings agriculture. The Congress needs to take steps to rein in the out-of-control growth of the federal government, but we need to work on proposals that make sense and don't unfairly ask more of some than others. I will not support any efforts to cut essential commodity or conservation programs." 
   Senator Burns is a senior member of the powerful Senate Appropriations Committee, which has jurisdiction over annual discretionary spending.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183.
 
 