SEN. BURNS APPLAUDS MONTANA EDUCATORS
  In recognition of Teacher Appreciation Week, Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) today applauded Montana's many talented educators. Eighty-four percent of Montana public school teachers in core academic fields have full certification and a major in their field, ranking Montana as one of the top states - 2nd out of 50 - in teacher qualification. In addition, Montana 8th graders have the 2nd highest science scores in the world, and it is one of the top 11 states in the percentage of high school graduates going on to college.  
   "In Montana we are blessed to have educators making a difference each day in the lives of our young people," said Burns. "Our highly qualified teachers not only work hard, but they care about each and every student that enters their classroom. I extend my sincere gratitude to all our teachers in Montana for their sense of duty and compassion to our precious future generation." 
   This week, Burns also met with Montana's two winners of the prestigious Milken Educators Award: Thomas Andres of St. Labre Catholic Indian School in Ashland, and Alyson Mike of East Valley Middle School in East Helena. "These are two shining examples of the many talented teachers we have in big sky country," he said. "I was pleased to shake their hands and thank them for the endless work they do each day to brighten the future for Montana's youth." 
   The criteria for the selection of outstanding elementary and secondary school teachers, principals and other education professionals as Milken Educators included the following: exceptional educational talent as evidenced by outstanding instructional practices in the classroom, school and profession; outstanding accomplishment and strong long-range potential for professional and policy leadership; and engaging and inspiring presence that motivates and impacts students, colleagues and the community. 
   Burns' wife, Phyllis, worked as an elementary school teacher at Trinity Lutheran in Billings, as well as a substitute teacher at Prince of Peace Lutheran Church Preschool.
   Contact: Jennifer O'Shea, 202/224-6830.
 
 