SEN. BURNS ANNOUNCES $300,000 DOMESTIC VIOLENCE ASSISTANCE GRANT FOR MISSOULA
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-MT) is pleased to announce that the Missoula branch of the Young Women's Christian Association (YWCA) has been awarded a grant from the U.S. The U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) to support their efforts in assisting the victims of domestic violence with transitional housing assistance totaling $349,422. This award is part of DOJ's Prosecutorial Remedies and Other Tools to end the Exploitation of Children Today Act (the PROTECT Act). 
  The PROTECT Act was authorized in 2003 and authorizes the Attorney General to award grants to states, units of local government, Indian tribes, and other organizations to carry out programs designed to provide assistance to minors, adults, and their dependents that are in need of transitional housing as a result of fleeing a situation of domestic violence. This need becomes exacerbated when emergency shelter services or other intervention services are unavailable or deemed insufficient.
  "Domestic violence is a crime that destroys families in so many ways and often, many victims may be unable to flee this environment if they feel they have nowhere to go" said Senator Burns. "I am pleased to see that the DOJ is recognizing the hard work of Missoula's YWCA by awarding them this grant that can be used to provide victims with a safe environment towards their fight out of domestic violence."
  According to the YWCA website, their mission is when it comes to domestic violence and sexual abuse is to "provide the resources, support, and education necessary for each woman, man, and child in our community to become empowered and live a life free from partner violence, sexual assault, and child abuse."
  "This grant, which Missoula will likely share with Mineral County, will be so helpful because these women are by themselves, scared, abused, intimidated, usually have children, and housing is hard to come by with minimum work skills," said Sylvia Bookout-Reinicke, a former state representative from Mineral County, who served for several years on the Mineral County Sexual Assault Help Line before serving in the legislature. "I'm very appreciative of the work that Conrad Burns does and the funding that we receive through the Committees that he is on."
  "Without the YWCA, we would be very unsuccessful with our efforts across the state," said Verna Helm, Director of Mineral County Domestic Violence and Sexual Assault Help Line. "We can shelter our victims in hotels for three days, but without the YWCA we would be unable to keep our victims safe. I don't ever remember a time that the YWCA has turned us down. This funding will help these efforts continue. I am so happy for the YWCA, they deserve it."
  Additionally, award funding may be used for local projects that provide short-term housing assistance and support services to enable individuals escaping a domestic violence situation to locate and secure permanent and safe housing. These uses include rental or utility payments and other related expenses such as support services deigned to assist victims in locating and securing safe, permanent housing.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183, matt_mackowiak@burns.senate.gov; Cindy Weese, 406/543-6691, cweese@ywcaofmissoula.org.
 
 