SEN. BURNS ADDRESSES HIGH GAS PRICES
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) will attend an Energy Committee hearing today at 2:30pm EST today to address high gas prices. His comments from the hearing will be available today via satellite feed.  
   "As we work to help the families and individuals who have been affected by Hurricane Katrina, and face many other important responsibilities here in the Senate, I am glad we are able to sit down and discuss the issue of high fuel prices," said Burns. "This is something that affects every single American, and I look to hearing the insight of all of our witnesses today." 
   Burns noted that the Administration has taken several critical steps as the prices of gas have gone up in our country. "I am glad to see President Bush take the necessary steps to open the Strategic Petroleum Reserve today, which was set up for situations just like the one our nation is experiencing right now." Additionally the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) will temporarily allow refiners, importers, distributors, carriers and retail outlets to supply gasoline and diesel fuels that do not meet standards for emissions until September 15, 2005. Burns added that he was glad to see the Jones Act suspended until September 19, 2005, which will allow products that are shipped between U.S. ports be carried by any ship, not the normal requirement that they be transported via U.S. Flagged ship. "This will allow tankers to expeditiously move between refiners in Houston to cities on the East Coast, and I'm glad to see this waiver put in place. Easing regional supply jams helps us across the entire country." 
   "As I traveled across Montana during the August recess, I spoke to people from every corner of the state and repeatedly heard their concerns about the cost of fuel," said Burns. "These high prices are affecting families and businesses across our nation, and I hope we can identify steps to help the high gas prices we're seeing during today's hearing. One solution which I have long supported, and will continue to push for, is diversifying our domestic supply of fuel to places like the Rocky Mountain West and ANWR. And in addition to new development, we should all be looking at our own consumption habits. When you get behind the wheel of your vehicle, ask yourself 'do I need to make this trip?' Conservation and personal responsibility will be an important part of any long-term strategy to reduce our dependence on foreign oil." 
   Burns' comments will be available via satellite feed today at 1:45pm MT, 3:45pm EST on: 
   Galaxy 3 
  Transponder 7-H 
  Downlink 3840 
   They will also be available on the internet at www.burns.senate.gov, and via phone at 1-800-545-1267, box 333. 
   Witnesses at the hearing will include Guy Caruso, Administrator, Energy Information Administration; Dr. James Overdahl, Chief Economist, Commodity Futures Trading Commission; Johnnie Burton, Director, Minerals Management Service, Department of the Interior; Robert Darbelnet, President and CEO, AAA; Bob Slaughter, President, National Petrochemical and Refiners Association (NPRA); John Dowd, Oil Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein and Co., LLC.
   Contact: Jennifer O'Shea, 202/224-6830.
 
 