SEN. BURNS APPLAUDS AVAILABILITY OF MORE FLU SHOTS
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) applauded Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary Tommy Thompson's announcement today that more flu vaccines will be made available for Americans. HHS will purchase 1.2 million doses of the vaccine from GlaxoSmithKline for distribution to areas most in need. Beginning this week, the Fluarix vaccine will be sent to the United States for distribution by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), based on the agency's determination of communities most in need.  
   "As soon as people were made aware about the vaccine shortage, our health care community stepped up to manage what we had, and work to make more available for those in need," said Burns. "I'm glad to know that the areas that need assistance most will be the first to receive additional vaccines, and I am confident our officials will continue working to make sure every American who needs a shot will have access to one." 
   Secretary Thompson commented today: "Our public health community has done an outstanding job of making sure the vaccine gets to those who need it most. With this latest purchase, we will be able to protect more high-risk Americans this flu season in communities across the country." 
   The vaccine being made available, Fluarix, has not been licensed for use in the United States and will be administered under an Investigational New Drug application (IND). The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has, over the past month, reviewed extensive manufacturing and clinical information and conducted an inspection of the GlaxoSmithKline manufacturing facility in Germany to determine that this vaccine is suitable for use under an IND. FDA reviewed GlaxoSmithKline's proposed clinical study plan and informed consent document, as well as the clinical protocol and manufacturing data. These steps along with the conditions and controls required under the IND are designed to assure the product is safe for use during the current flu season. 
   For more information about the flu, visit the CDC Web site www.cdc.gov/flu.
   Contact: Jennifer O'Shea, 202/224-6830.
 
 