SEN. SPECTER INTRODUCES ASBESTOS BILL; INCLUDES SEN. BURNS' IMPROVEMENTS
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) announced today that several of his own key provisions have been included in the asbestos bill introduced today by Sen. Arlen Specter (R-Penn.) that will benefit residents of Libby, Montana. Burns included several new provisions for the community, and also enhanced others previously included in discussion drafts of the legislation.  
   In the previous version there had been no mention of the acute harm suffered by Libby residents. Senator Burns worked closely with the author of the bill, Senate Judiciary Chairman Specter, to make sure that Libby's tremolite asbestos problem was highlighted early on in the legislation. "By including these facts as part of the legislative findings within the comprehensive asbestos bill, I wanted to make it extremely clear that the pain and suffering inflicted on Libby's residents was foremost in my mind, and should be part of any larger discussion on asbestos reform," said Burns. 
   Based on suggestions from attorneys representing Libby claimants, Burns included a provision which does not allow for any healthcare payments made to Libby claimants from reducing any compensation they may receive from the Trust Fund. In the language of the bill, any payment of medical expenses from other sources are not considered "collateral source compensation." 
   While previous versions of the bill have waived the stringent exposure requirements for Libby residents, Burns updated this provision by allowing those who had lived in Libby for 12 consecutive months prior to December 31, 2004, rather than 2003, as contained in previous versions. 
   While these improvements have been included in the latest version of the bill, Burns still hopes for more fine-tuning to ensure that Libby residents are benefited by this Trust Fund, including provisions relating to the expertise of the Physicians Panels, and the medical criteria they use to diagnose asbestos-related diseases. 
   "We must ensure that the final bill we vote on in Congress has the well-being of anyone affected by the unique situation in Libby in mind, and I'm working to make sure that's the case," said Burns.
   Contact: Jennifer O'Shea, 202/224-6830.
 
 