SEN. BURNS FIGHTS FOR LIBBY ON SENATE FLOOR, IMPROVES LIBBY PROVISIONS
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R - Mont.) today made a speech on the Senate floor to detail the case for Libby residents' decades of pain caused from asbestos.  
   On the floor, Senator Burns said, "We need to vote to proceed. The asbestos exposure in Libby is unlike any other place in the United States. The residents of that city have been profoundly affected by this spread of asbestos-related diseases. The scope of asbestos exposure in Libby, Montana may never be known, but let me assure you, it is significant." 
   While on the floor, Senator Burns showed pictures of a contaminated baseball field in Libby and of the W.R. Grace processing facility in Libby. Senator Burns also read personal statements from Libby residents Eva Thomson, Charlotte DeShazer Wade, and Jim Davidson detailing the personal pain and suffering from asbestos-related diseases. 
   This morning, Senator Burns filed an amendment to the asbestos legislation which would include the lung diffusion capacity test (DLCO) in the asbestos legislation for Libby residents. The DLCO provision is a medical test that would increase the number of Libby residents eligible by 40%. 
   While on the Senate floor, Senator Burns said his mission is "the protection of people who have seriously been impacted by asbestos since 1924. Walk through the cemeteries and see those families, and have people come to your town hall meeting short of breath, being suffocated by any disease related to asbestos. I can only hope we can continue to work together not only to safeguard these Libby provisions, but to improve them as well." 
   Tonight a vote is expected at 6pm (EST) on a motion to proceed, which some Senators are filibustering. A cloture vote to end debate and proceed to the bill requires 60 votes. 
   The Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania, said on the floor, "Any Senator who votes not to proceed is saying to his constituents, is saying to the people suffering from mesothelioma, people suffering from asbestos exposure, anybody who votes no on the motion to proceed is saying there's no problem. I think that's a pretty tough vote to explain." 
   Chairman Specter continued, "I commend Senator Burns for his diligence in looking after his constituents with special reference to Libby. Anybody who has listened to Senator Burns who doesn't think we ought to proceed and take up this problem simply has his or her head in the sand." 
   Following the floor speech, Senator Burns updated Libby residents and local officials on his efforts and the status of the asbestos legislation.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183.
 
 