SEN. BURNS ANNOUNCES MAJOR HOMELAND SECURITY FUNDING FOR MONTANA
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) announced Montana will receive a federal grant for $189,000 from the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) for homeland security efforts as part of the Buffer Zone Protection Program (BZPP). The BZPP provides funds at the State and local levels to prevent and protect against terrorist incidents. 
   DHS, in cooperation with states, cities, counties, and the private sector across the country have identified a list of sites across the country that are eligible for critical homeland security funding due to their vulnerability, threat, and the consequence of their potential loss. This list of sites covers a range of 17 sectors, including nuclear, chemical, and agricultural facilities.
   This funding is intended to:
   * Support the implementation of Buffer Zone Plans outside the perimeter of identified critical infrastructure or key resource sites
   * Develop effective preventive and protective measures that make it more difficult for terrorists to conduct surveillance or launch attacks within the immediate vicinity of high priority critical infrastructure targets
   * Increase preparedness capabilities of local jurisdictions responsible for the security and safety of surrounding communities
   "Improving security at our critical infrastructure facilities in Montana and around the country requires federal investment, and I am pleased to announce this funding," said Senator Burns. "We have secured $18.3 million for the Northern Border Air Wing in Great Falls, and have $6.3 million expected in this year's DHS bill, which is part of our effort to secure the northern border by directing federal resources to Montana."
   The specific critical infrastructure sites in Montana and across the nation included in the BZPP are classified.
   Senator Burns is a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, which funds the Department of Homeland Security.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183, matt_mackowiak@burns.senate.gov.
 
 