SEN. BURNS GETS BEARTOOTH BRIEFING
  Sen. Conrad Burns was joined by the Federal Highway Administration's Associate Administrator for Policy and Governmental Affairs, Mr. Chip Nottingham as the two received a progress update on the reconstruction of the Beartooth Highway. Representatives of the Montana Department of Transportation and the construction and engineering personnel managing the project gave Burns and Nottingham a brief overview of the plan, and an update on their current progress.  
   "It says a lot that they're ahead of schedule," said Burns. "This continues to be a coordinated effort on the part of many folks, from the federal level all the way down to main street Red Lodge and Cooke City. I wanted to ensure they're navigating the federal red tape without any big snags, and make sure the Federal Highway folks could hear first-hand how important this road is to our State, and our Nation." 
   In the briefing, Burns was informed of the plans to reconstruct the damaged parts of the highway as well as runoff mitigation plans to ensure this sort of natural disaster doesn't happen again. Montana Department of Transportation Director Jim Lynch also took Senator Burns and Mr. Nottingham up to the first hairpin turn to survey the extent of the damage and the reconstruction underway. 
   Burns also met with Red Lodge Mayor Richard Gessling and other community leaders to discuss economic impacts on the community and see how the businesses were faring in the wake of the closure. 
   Burns continued, "The folks in Washington are clear about the importance of this project. The red tape has been kept to a minimum, the State DOT and the contractors have done an amazing job getting the project bid out and started in record time, and federal funds are available to pick up the tab from this repair. The businesses are holding together, and folks are still coming to town to enjoy what Red Lodge has to offer. I think it goes to show when we're all pulling in the same direction, we can move mountains, or at least repair the road after the mountain moves." 
   Senator Conrad Burns is a senior member of the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee which oversees the Federal Highway Administration. Burns also serves on the Senate Transportation Appropriations Subcommittee, which funds the Department of Transportation.
   Contact: Jennifer O'Shea, 202/224-6830. 
 
 