SEN. BURNS ANNOUNCES MAJOR RESEARCH GRANT FOR MONTANA STATE UNIVERSITY
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R - Mont.) today announced the National Institute of General Medical Sciences (NIGMS), a department within the National Institutes of Health (NIH), will award a $260,735 grant to Montana State University (MSU). The grant is funded by the NIH appropriation and will sponsor MSU's Pharmacology, Physiology, and Biological Chemistry program's research on Iron-Sulfur Clusters in Biological Radical Generation. 
  "This grant will help MSU continue conducting cutting-edge research and the high quality of education made available at our public universities," said Senator Burns. "This enables our young folks to stay in state for their education. Our strong research programs keep our most precious resource, our children, in Montana to live, learn, and work."
  According to the NIGMS website, the organization supports basic biomedical research that increases understanding of life processes and lays the foundation for advances in disease diagnosis, treatment, and prevention. The Institute's programs encompass the areas of cell biology, biophysics, genetics, developmental biology, pharmacology, physiology, biological chemistry, bioinformatics, computational biology, and minority biomedical research and training. 
  This competitive grant is a continuation of previous grants, transferred to MSU from Michigan State University when principle investigator, Dr. Joan Broderick, moved to MSU this spring. Dr. Broderick has been conducting research on Iron-Sulfur Clusters in Biological Radical Generation since August of 1997 and plans to continue the project until May of 2010. The current grant will fund the budget period June 2006 to May 2007. Including this year's allotment, it is estimated that the university will receive $1,250,866 over the next four years to continue this research.
  The research will be conducted by Dr. Broderick and her research group, made up primarily by grad students and post doctorate fellows. According to Dr. Richard Ikeda, a biochemist a the NIGMS, this research looks at how a specific class of enzymes, consisting of iron, sulfur, and an element known as SAM, effects the creation of hemoglobin and lipids in cells.
  For more information, please on NIGMS, please visit: http://www.nigms.nih.gov
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183, matt_mackowiak@burns.senate.gov.l
 
 