SEN. BURNS SUPPORTS MARRIAGE PROTECTION AMENDMENT TO CONSTITUTION
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont) voted in support of the Marriage Protection Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, defining marriage officially as it has always been in this country, between one man and one woman. 
  The amendment, co-sponsored by Burns and introduced by Senator Wayne Allard (R-CO), simply states: 
  Marriage in the United States shall consist only of the union of a man and a woman. Neither this Constitution, nor the constitution of any State, shall be construed to require that marriage or the legal incidents thereof be conferred upon any union other than the union of a man and a woman. 
  The amendment failed to advance on a vote of 49-48.
  Senator Burns explained his vote by saying, "I am generally hesitant to amend the Constitution; there are few things as permanent as a constitutional amendment, and it is something that clearly should not be done lightly. However, when activist judges repeatedly take steps to overrule the clear voice of a majority of the people, we are left with very few options. As we have seen over the past several years, federal and state judges have time and time again struck down traditional marriage protections laws - laws overwhelmingly approved by voter ballot initiatives. This is simply unacceptable, and that is why I voted in favor of the Marriage Protection Amendment. It is the only way to ensure that traditional marriage laws approved by the voters in a majority of the states are protected."
  In 1997, the Montana Legislature passed a state law defining marriage as between a man and a woman. Then in 2004, the people of Montana approved a ballot initiative by 67 percent, which amended the Montana Constitution to state: "Only a marriage between one man and one woman shall be valid or recognized as a marriage in this state." Nationally, 19 states have adopted similar state constitutional amendments, and 26 more have statutes designed to protect traditional marriage.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183, matt_mackowiak@burns.senate.gov
 
 