SEN. BURNS HOLDS HEARING ON RURAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS ISSUES
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont) once again demonstrated his dedication to bringing Internet access to all Montana residents, and all Americans, in a hearing of the Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee today. 
   Without Internet access, many Montanans face setbacks concerning education, jobs, and health care. Senator Burns has worked tirelessly in the past to remedy the difficulties faced by those lacking local or high-speed Internet access, and has introduced the NetUSA bill to spread broadband internet access to even more rural areas. Geoff Feiss, general manager of the Montana Telecommunications Association, today acknowledged the Senator's commitment. He said, "Thanks for all you're doing on behalf of us Montanans and the rural telecom industry in general." 
   There have been great improvements in Internet access in recent years, which includes a 30% jump in connections to rural homes from 2003 to 2005. Senator Burns stressed that the committee must use these positive results to encourage further availability and that Congress cannot stop moving forward with this issue. He said, "The U.S. currently lags behind some countries in broadband access - this is unacceptable." 
   The hearing continued with such topics as intercarrier compensation, the Rural Development Authority, and telecommunications in Indian Country. Bill Squires, the Senior Vice President and General Counsel for Blackfoot Telephone Cooperative in Missoula, Montana testified as a witness. He said, "Clearly Senator Burns has worked hard to ensure that Montanans have a voice in any policy changes that would impact broadband services to rural Montana. I am confident that his leadership will make sure that all Montanans have the ability to participate in the global economy." 
   Senator Burns said, "Expanded Internet access provides significantly more opportunities for education and jobs for both Montanans and all Native American households on tribal lands. It also means access to Telehealth, which is critical to rural areas of Montana where doctors and hospitals are scarce. The ability to communicate with a medical professional several miles or towns away is invaluable to rural Montanans. It allows people to live where they want without the fear of going without important medical services. The further out broadband expands to rural areas, the more opportunities those folks will have participate in the global economy, which will mean more high-paying jobs for Montanans. My bill will go a long way towards ensuring the power of high-speed Internet reaches all corners of Montana, and the country."
 
 