SEN. BURNS, REP. REHBERG DISCUSS NEW MISSIONS FOR MALMSTROM WITH LT. GEN. WOOD
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) and Rep. Denny Rehberg (R - Mont.) today met with U.S. Air Force (USAF) Lt. Gen Steve Wood to discuss the future of Montana's Malmstrom Air Force Base, including of the addition of new missions which would bring jobs to the Great Falls area. Lt. Gen. Wood is the Deputy Chief of Staff for Plans and Programs at the USAF Headquarters. Today's meeting was held in Rehberg's Capitol Hill office.
   Senator Burns said, "This is another step in securing new missions for Malmstrom. I've been working for a long time on this issue, including recent meetings with Defense Secretary Rumsfeld, Deputy Defense Secretary Gordon England, and meetings with Gen. James Cartwright. Each time I stress the first-class facilities at Malmstrom, the lack of air encroachment issues, and the strategic position of the base in the 21st century. Today's meeting was valuable in conveying our belief that new missions can, should, and must come to Malmstrom soon."  
   Congressman Rehberg said, "Today's meeting is a continuation of the commitment Conrad and I have made to Montana and Malmstrom. We want the Air Force and the folks at the Pentagon to realize what we in Montana already know: Malmstrom has clear strategic value and can play a pivotal role in the national security of this nation." 
   In today's meeting, Lt. Gen. Wood confirmed the Air Force's Attribute Study would happen at Malmstrom in the near future and will be an "A to Z look" at various aspects of the base. This report will go back to the government where the base's strengths can be matched up with available government missions. Lt. Gen. Wood called it "an advertisement for missions." 
   Last year, Congressman Rehberg introduced legislation that called for the government to maintain the current force of 500 Intercontinental Ballistic Missiles (ICBMs). The Pentagon's Quadrennial Defense Review (QDR) calls for a reduction in 50 missiles that could adversely impact Malmstrom's 564th Missile Squadron, also known as the "Odd Squad." Of the current ICBM force, Montana is home to 200 missiles. During the most recent Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) round, Senator Burns and Congressman Rehberg fought to keep missions at Malmstrom and maintain Montana's Air National Guard Force, by adding an F-15 squadron. 
   "In addition to our desire to see the Air Force continue its ground-based nuclear missile deterrent, we want to see another mission added at Malmstrom," Rehberg said. "The training value, with so much open air space around Malmstom, is high. The Air Force should take advantage of this unique opportunity." 
   Senator Burns has secured over $164 million for base and infrastructure improvements for Malmstrom. 
   Senator Burns said, "They say that 'if you build it, they will come.' Well we've gotten the funds for the Air Force to build a world class base here; it's time for the missions to come." 
   Since its initial deployment during World War II, Burns and Rehberg noted, Malmstrom has grown in importance, both to the Air Force and to the local economy. In direct impact alone, the base account for almost $325 million a year to the local economy. 
   Senator Burns is a senior member of the powerful Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee and Congressman Rehberg is a member of the House Military Quality of Life Subcommittee on Appropriations, giving them advantageous positions to secure funding for Malmstrom and ensure the base is a part of the Air Force's future plans.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183.
 
 