SEN. BURNS INTRODUCES AG DISASTER RELIEF
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) highlighted the critical need for agriculture relief in Montana and the rest of the nation by introducing legislation [S. 3860] to address the need for comprehensive disaster assistance, especially fire recovery funding. Burns, a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, and a member of the Agriculture Appropriations Subcommittee, already successfully added disaster assistance to the bill covering 2005 losses but feels in light of this year's devastating fire season in Montana, the weather-related losses should be expanded.
  "We need to address disaster assistance and we need to do it right away." said Burns. "I already have an amendment attached to Agriculture Appropriations that covers 2005 crop and livestock losses, and this year's devastating fire season in Montana shows the need to expand that for 2006 as well. I've asked the Senate Leadership to bring the Agriculture Appropriations bill to the floor so we can add this important help for producers and I'll keep searching for appropriate vehicles for drought, fire, and other agricultural disaster needs." 
  "We have over 800,000 acres burned in Montana this season and it is imperative we work together to minimize these losses," said Bill Donald, President of the Montana Stockgrowers Association. "We appreciate the actions of the Senator to get help to the people that have been devastated by these fires."
  Senator Kent Conrad (D-N.Dak) introduced similar disaster legislation, but Burns felt it didn't do enough to address wildfire-related losses. "I'm supportive of Senator Conrad's legislation, and any efforts to deliver assistance to producers, but I want to make sure that fire recovery funding is provided. My legislation will do that, as well as help out farmers and ranchers who are dealing with other losses."
  The Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimates the price of the legislation, which covers a variety of disaster needs nationally, at $6.4 Billion. The summary of the Emergency Wildfire and Farm Relief Act of 2006 follows:
  TITLE I - WILDFIRE RELIEF
   Sec. 101 - Emergency Conservation Program 
   Provides $30 million for ECP, with $2 million directed to Montana for wildfire recovery efforts.
  Sec. 102 - Environmental Quality Incentives Program 
   Provides $200 million for EQIP, with $10 million directed to Montana for wildfire recovery efforts.
  Sec. 103 - Livestock Assistance Grant Program 
   Provides $100 million in funding for the new Livestock Assistance Grant Program, as announced by the Secretary on August 29, 2006. Funding is distributed through block grants to states, and is used to help producers in drought areas with feed and grazing issues. Specifies that producers in counties afflicted by wildfires shall also be eligible.
  TITLE II - AGRICULTURE PRODUCTION LOSSES
   Sec. 201 - Crop Disaster Assistance 
   Provides assistance for crop losses due to weather-related disasters in 2005 and 2006.
  Sec. 202 - Livestock Assistance 
   Provides funding for both the Livestock Compensation Program and Livestock Indemnity payments, for losses in 2005 and 2006. Requires producers to provide evidence of actual loss to qualify for assistance. Specifies that losses caused by wildfires in Montana shall be eligible for assistance.
  Sec. 203 - Sugarbeet assistance 
   Provides $24 million for sugar beet losses in 2005.
  Sec. 204 - Bovine tuberculosis indemnification 
   Provides $2 million for bovine tuberculosis losses in 2005.
  Sec. 205 - Reduction in payments Prevents "double-dipping"
  TITLE III - SUPPLEMENTAL NUTRITION AND AGRICULTURAL ECONOMIC DISASTER ASSISTANCE
   Sec. 301 - Replenishment of Sec. 32 
   Provides $100 million in block grants for specialty crops.
  Sec. 302 - Supplemental economic loss payments
   Provides a supplemental direct payment to producers, in an amount equal to 30% of their direct payment, to address unprecedented spikes in energy costs in 2005. Also provides assistance to dairy producers.
  TITLE IV - CONSERVATION
  Sec. 401 - Emergency Watershed Protection Program.
   Provides $60 million for EWP.
  TITLE V - FARM SERVICE AGENCY
   Sec. 501 - Funding for Additional Personnel
   Provides $30 million in administrative funding to FSA, to allow the agency to expedite implementation and delivery of agriculture assistance.
  TITLE VI - MISCELLANEOUS
   Title provides necessary authorities to the Secretary to implement the Act.
  TITLE VII - EMERGENCY DESIGNATION
   Provides that funding shall be designated as emergency funding.
   Contact: James Pendleton, 406/861-2637, james_pendleton@burns.senate.gov.
 
 