SEN. BURNS CALLS ON BURLINGTON NORTHERN TO SUSPEND FUEL SURCHARGES
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.), in a letter sent on September 2, challenged Matthew K. Rose, President and CEO of Burlington Northern Santa Fe (BNSF) Railway Company, to lead the transportation industry in responding to high diesel prices by suspending fuel surcharges for the immediate future.  
   "High oil prices are hurting everyone, and I don't doubt that BNSF feels that pinch as well," said Burns. "But in the wake of Hurricane Katrina, the rail industry can contribute tremendously to recovery efforts by suspending these fuel charges and allowing freight to move quickly and efficiently across the country. Transportation is vital to our nation, and by allowing rail transportation to remain feasible for shippers with limited options, BNSF can help keep America moving and limit the impact of this hurricane to our economy." 
   To date, BNSF has announced fuel surcharges for agriculture shipments of 11.5 percent in September and 13 percent in October, and for coal shipments of 14.5 percent in September and 16 percent in October. Burns' letter calls on BNSF to suspend those surcharges in order to allow goods to move quickly and efficiently to markets. 
   "We are still trying to get an understanding of what the destruction of Gulf ports means for our economy," said Burns. "More than half of the nation's grain exports leave from New Orleans. Although Montana grain growers ship to Portland, the impact of losing a major shipping channel is a concern to all farmers and ranchers. In addition, moving coal efficiently across our country allows electricity to be generated more efficiently and reduces the burden of rising energy costs on all families. BNSF can do much for our economy here, in addition to the good work they have already done." 
   According to a press release from BNSF, the railway has contributed $1 million to relief efforts, and has offered rail transportation as an option to evacuate people from the Gulf States. 
   Burns invited Rose to Washington to discuss BNSF's response to Hurricane Katrina. "While I know you have many priorities right now, I am happy to meet with you at your convenience to discuss coordinated efforts to address the massive humanitarian crisis that our country faces. BNSF will play a critical role in moving goods both to the victims in need of assistance, and to the markets that drive our economy and allow us to help each other in such difficult times." 
   Text of Letter Below: 
   September 2, 2005 
   Matthew K. Rose 
  President and CEO 
  BNSF Railway Company 
  2650 Lou Menk Dr. 2nd Floor 
  P.O. Box 961057 
  Fort Worth, TX 76161-0057 
   Dear Mr. Rose: 
   Let me begin by expressing my sincerest condolences to you and the people of BNSF for the losses your company experienced due to Hurricane Katrina. As a company headquartered in Texas, I am certain that BNSF will be on the frontlines of relief efforts, given the tens of thousands of people who are being evacuated to Houston and other areas. In addition to the good work you are already doing during this time of national trial, BNSF has an additional opportunity to lead the transportation industry in responding to the crisis in the Gulf States. 
   Surging prices for diesel fuel have placed a hardship on our economy throughout this year. In response, the transportation industry has often felt as though it had not choice but to levy fuel surcharges to manage these rising costs. Under ordinary circumstances, the free market will best resolve the issues of supply and demand, cost and revenue. However, the devastation caused by Hurricane Katrina leaves our nation in anything but ordinary circumstances. 
   I call on BNSF to lead the industry by suspending fuel surcharges for the immediate future. The destruction of Gulf ports means that industries trying to move products to market may have to look to other ports, often covering much longer distances than budgeted for. It is critical that we keep America moving, and BNSF can demonstrate immense corporate compassion by suspending fuel surcharges and keeping rail transportation feasible for shippers with limited options. 
   Certainly, I am deeply concerned about the ability of the agriculture community to move products to port, but the impacts of limited rail availability go well beyond grain producers. With gas prices skyrocketing overnight, families throughout the country simply can not bear increases in other areas. Electric generation from natural gas will be hampered by the loss of gas generation in the gulf. By moving coal quickly and affordably to coal generating plants, BNSF can help keep the cost of electricity down, and lessen the burden on our economy. 
   The constraints on oil and gas production and refining caused by the hurricane present challenges for BNSF, as it does for the entire economy. But by choosing to suspend fuel surcharges during the trying times, BNSF can demonstrate tremendous leadership and compassion. Our economy relies on our transportation infrastructure. Keeping our economy strong will allow America to continue its heartfelt outpouring for victims of Hurricane Katrina. 
   While I know you have many priorities right now, I invite you to Washington to discuss BNSF's response to Hurricane Katrina. I am happy to meet with you at your convenience to discuss coordinated efforts to address the massive humanitarian crisis that our country faces. BNSF will play a critical role in moving goods both to the victims in need of assistance, and to the markets that drive our economy and allow us to help each other in such difficult times. 
   Sincerely, 
   Conrad Burns
   Contact: Jennifer O'Shea, 202/224-6830.
 
 