SEN. BURNS THRILLED ABOUT NEW NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT FLEXIBILITY
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) was thrilled to learn of Secretary of Education Margaret Spelling's recent announcement regarding new guidance and additional flexibility on the implementation of the No Child Left Behind Act. Among the changes are that states can use alternative assessments based on modified achievement standards for those students with "persistent academic disabilities;" that is, students who are not likely to reach grade level achievement because of their disability in the same timeframe as students without disabilities. States may include proficient scores from such assessments in making adequate yearly progress (AYP) decisions and those scores will be capped at two percent of the total tested population in addition to counting up to one percent of proficient scores for students with the most significant cognitive disabilities, for a total of three percent. Today's announcement also comes with $14 million in technical assistance (from existing resources) to help states with assessments and instruction of students with disabilities.  
   "This is music to my ears," said Burns. "Making sure we assess the needs of our students will allow us to best serve these needs and create a positive education environment. What works for one student may not for another, and it's important to find learning paths that works for all our students. A flexibility such as this one will truly impact Montana's more urban schools and districts, and today's announcement is an extremely positive step for our schools and students across the state." 
   Secretary of Education Spelling commented: "This new approach recognizes that these children should not all be treated alike. By relying on the most current and accurate information on how children learn and how to best serve their academic needs, this new policy focuses on children. They continue to be included in the accountability system because we know that otherwise, they risk being ignored, as was often the case before No Child Left Behind." 
   Burns has continually supported increased flexibility for No Child Left Behind, and he introduced legislation this week to protect rural schools. 'The Rural Schools Geography Act' would not require local education agencies to provide a student with the option to transfer to another school if providing the option is impractical due to: the distance to be traveled, a geographical barrier or hazard, or an unusually high cost of travel. "This legislation clarifies what is feasible for school transfers and gives states like Montana the ability to protect our schools and students by taking our rural landscapes into account," said Burns.
   Contact: Jennifer O'Shea, 202/224-6830.
 
 