SEN. BURNS DEFENDS LIBBY ON SENATE FLOOR
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R - Mont.) today defended language in the asbestos reform legislation on Libby, Montana following attacks by some Senators, including Sen. Ted Kennedy (D-Mass.), who compared Libby to East Hampton, MA.  
   On the Senate floor today, Sen. Burns said, "I filed an amendment to strengthen the Libby provisions rather than remove them entirely. I fail to see how the exposure in Libby is equal to the suffering in any other cities. The exposure to asbestos was limited in some of those cities into confined areas. As I explained yesterday the circumstances in Libby are much worse. The main thing is that the entire community was exposed by the wind from an open pit mine as opposed to communities that had enclosed facilities that processed the ore from the Libby mines. So we're talking about an entire valley, an entire city that was exposed by the wind from an open-pit mine. Not only did family members of the mine workers fall ill, but the entire town was contaminated." 
   Senator Burns has been meeting with many Senators to make the case for Libby in the asbestos reform efforts, and has secured support for the bill's co-sponsor, Judiciary Committee Chairman Arlen Specter. 
   Senator Burns said, "Yesterday I showed a picture of a baseball field and it was contaminated. In fact, the amounts of asbestos meant the asbestos in the playing field was as high as 15% in some areas. So it's been reported that concentrations as low as .001% in asbestos contamination generates dangerous exposures. So the children that were playing on that baseball field in 1978 are now experiencing health problems, and we believe they were caused by that exposure. This is a unique incident. It's a unique area. We're talking about an entire community that was exposed to asbestos." 
   Senator Burns and his staff have been in constant contact with Libby residents and officials over the past few weeks, and continually update them on activity in Washington and the outlook for the legislation. Votes on the bill are expected as early as tomorrow, and could continue in to Friday or even next week as debate proceeds.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183.
 
 