SEN. BURNS RELEASES BILL TO SPEED BROADBAND DEPLOYMENT, PRESERVE, IMPROVE UNIVERSAL SERVICE TO RURAL AREAS
  Following statement was made on the floor of the U.S. Senate introducing the bill: 
   Senator Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) 
   Mr. President, 
   I rise today on the 10th anniversary of the Telecom Act of 1996, to talk about a bill I am introducing today- The Internet and Universal Service Act of 2006 or "NetUSA" if you will.  
   Since the Telecom Act, the only thing certain is change. With change, several trends have emerged including the development of new technologies, industry consolidation and convergence, and product bundling. 
   The pace of technological change has been astounding. We have a plethora of new technologies including WiFi and WiMax for wireless Internet access, Voice-over-Internet-Protocol (VoIP) for telephone service using the Internet, and Broadband Over Powerline (BPL) for Internet access via electric lines. 
   While the Telecom Act promised industry and technology convergence, only recently is it materializing - with telephone, cable and wireless companies invading one another's turf. Cable companies are offering phone service over the Internet. Telephone companies are offering video service. New technologies and competition have brought consumers a variety of choices for local, long-distance, video, wireless and Internet services; and many companies are offering bundled services. 
   The radical transformation of the industry has led some to call for a rewrite of the Telecom Act. Central issues in the debate today are the reform of the Universal Service Fund (USF), reform of intercarrier compensation, franchising issues for video providers, and net neutrality, along with a whole host of others. 
   As Congress begins working to rewrite telecom laws, my central focus will be encouraging broadband deployment in every corner of the U.S. and preserving and improving Universal Service. 
   Broadband deployment is more vital than ever for the future of this country. In the 21st Century, how do we compete against low-wage foreign workers? We ensure that U.S. workers can obtain broadband services at affordable prices no matter where they live 
   The GAO recently agreed recommending the government make more broadband infrastructure investments to improve the U.S. workforces' human capital and skill level). Technology provides a greater chance to live where you want and hold a good job. If a community doesn't have broadband, they're at a huge competitive disadvantage- its that simple. 
   We need to provide incentives for companies to continue to expand broadband facilities and ensure that all Americans have access to the Internet regardless of where they live - particularly since, although Internet penetration has grown in rural communities, a gap still exists between them and suburban and urban communities. 
   One way I'll provide such an incentive is to continue my support of Universal Service. The nearly 100-year commitment Congress and this nation have had to USF has been indispensable in providing the same opportunities for rural Americans to participate in the nation's educational and health care systems that exist for Americans in urban areas, and for every American to participate fully in the Internet economy. Just as rural electrification in the 1930s led to a surge of economic growth and raised living standards across rural America, Universal Service plays the same role in the Internet era. 
   Without Universal Service support phone bills in rural areas around the country like Montana would increase dramatically. Universal Service also helps ensure that schools and libraries receive access to Internet. Because of Universal Service, the Internet now reaches almost all school-aged children. Universal Service helps link rural health care facilities to urban medical centers, promoting telemedicine. Many people in remote communities wouldn't have access to health care using the Internet - an important issue in Montana where many counties don't even have a doctor. 
   For those who say that the Universal Service no longer makes sense, or that it should be repealed or scaled back- I encourage them to visit Montana and see the fund in action. As one official from a carrier serving a remote corner of Alaska recently commented, Universal Service is "more than a line item on a bill," ... it "provides a link to the outside world." 
   That's not to say that changes do not need to be made to Universal Service. As consumers switch to new technologies like wireless service, email and VoIP, Universal Service is slowly taking in less money each year. At the same time, the amount of money distributed by the fund is increasing. This situation is obviously not sustainable. Additionally, we need to ensure the Universal Service is distributed where it's needed. In revising Universal Service to adapt to the changing technology landscape, it's essential to maintain commitment levels to Universal Service programs to foster the continued availability of telecom and advanced services in rural communities and to strengthen and improve the overall fund. 
   My proposed legislation will speed up deployment of broadband to rural areas and to preserve and improve universal service. 
   In my bill I seek: 
   * To ensure that companies that receive universal service funds will invest and deploy broadband services. 
   * To ensure that universal service support contributions are assessed in a fair and competitively neutral manner. 
   * Ensuring the integrity of the Schools and Libraries Program to deter waste, fraud and abuse by strengthening the FCC's management and oversight, including imposing sanctions on applicants or vendors who repeatedly and knowingly violate program rules. 
   * And lastly, improving the effectiveness of the Rural Health Care Program. 
   I look forward to working with my colleagues to craft creative solutions to these issues that are so vital to our nation's future.
   Contact: Derek Hunter, 202/224-6137, 202/380-8182.
 
 