SEN. BURNS ASSURES AIRLINE SERVICE, ACCESS
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) applauds President Bush for signing into law the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005. Not only does the law reduce the deficit by nearly $40 billion over 5 years, it also provides $30 million to the Essential Air Service (EAS) program over the next two years and $43.5 million for Enhance 911 (E-911), intended to improve, enhance, and promote enhanced 9-1-1 capabilities in rural areas. The EAS funding will help fund continued air service to Montana communities that otherwise would not have it.  
   The E-911 program will promote ways to ensure voice-over IP (VoIP) calls are directed to the correct dispatcher when emergency calls are made. The legislation, signed into law today by President Bush, will promote the organization and coordination of dispatch centers and emergency responders to reach this goal. The funding for the program will come from revenue from an auction of digital spectrum to broadcasters for digital television. 
   Senator Burns said, "We've seen horror stories of people in rural areas across the country not having their 9-1-1 calls routed appropriately and emergency personnel not arriving in time. This program will ensure rural Montanans have the best technology possible to make sure that when they call 9-1-1, it gets through and help arrives as quickly as possible." 
   Senator Burns was the author of the amendment that secured the additional $30 million to the Essential Air Service program. The additional $30 million will be available over 2 years and will help keep communities like Glasgow, Glendive, Havre, Lewistown, Miles City, Sidney, Wolf Point and West Yellowstone connected to the rest of the world through air travel. 
   Senator Burns said, "Communities with air service are opened to a number of positive economic development benefits. The economic benefits come from their ability to attract and retain businesses, attract tourist visitors, and have residents that value the ability to travel. Air service also provides connections to vital services such as higher education and medical facilities, making communities safer. Civil aviation has become an integral part of the Montana economy. It is a key vehicle for economic growth and has a profound influence on quality of life. To a large extent, civil aviation and the EAS program have enabled small communities and rural populations to enter the mainstream of global commerce." 
   As Chairman of the Aviation Subcommittee, Senator Burns intends to hold a hearing later this year dedicated to rural air service.
 
 