SEN. BURNS FIGHTS FOR LOWER ENERGY PRICES
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R - Mont.) today joined six other northwest senators in a letter to the White House opposing the Office of Management and Budget's (OMB) fiscal year 2007 request because it would raise the Bonneville Power Administration's (BPA) electricity rates for Montana's consumers by $924 million over the next ten years.  
   In the letter to OMB Director Josh Bolten, Senator Burns stresses that the budget request "undermines decades of regionally-based decision-making on issues critical to the economy." Rates would be increased for consumers because the administration's proposal would redirect almost a billion dollars of projected BPA revenues over the next decade to accelerate payments to the U.S. Treasury. Over the past five years, BPA has shown fiscal responsibility by making early payments over $1.46 billion to the Treasury voluntarily. Senator Burns included additional concerns, also stated in the letter. 
   Senator Burns said, "In addition to the immediate rate impacts to Northwest consumers and businesses, we are concerned that this proposal would short-circuit the regional consensus necessary to balance the complimentary goals of meeting our fiscal responsibilities, providing affordable electricity vital to the Northwest's economic growth, and investing in our energy future." 
   Senator Burns and the other Senators believe OMB is circumventing the proper congressional process to evaluate a proposal which would raise rates on consumers and undermine local control. Energy consumers have been hit hard by drought conditions and uncertain markets which increased wholesale electricity rates by 46 percent in the past five years. 
   Senator Burns was successful last year in defeating a similar proposal which would have eliminated cost-based rates for BPA customers. This tactic has been used by previous presidents, both Republican and Democratic, and have been rejected by Congress each time. 
   Over 44,000 households in northwest Montana are served by Flathead Electric Cooperative, which depends on BPA for its power supply. 
   The letter was co-signed by Senators Maria Cantwell (D-Wash.), Patty Murray (D-Wash.), Larry Craig (R-Idaho), Ron Wyden (D-Oreg), Max Baucus (D-Mont.), and Gordon Smith (R-Oreg).
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183.
 
 