SEN. BURNS DETAILS VET ACT'S BENEFITS FOR EXPANDING JOB TRAINING FOR VETERANS
  Today Sen. Conrad Burns (R - Mont.) gained momentum in advancing his veterans education bill, S. 2416, the Veterans' Employment and Training (VET) Act of 2006 by testifying at the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee. 
  The VET Act, introduced March 15, 2006 by Senator Burns, intends to expand eligibility for accelerated benefits to include industry sectors identified by the U.S. Department of Labor as likely to add large numbers of new jobs or require new job training skills in the coming years. These sectors include construction, hospitality, retail, financial services, energy, homeland security, health care, and transportation.
  Under the Montgomery G.I. Bill, the Department of Veterans' Administration (VA) currently provides accelerated benefits to assist our service men and women in transitioning to the civilian job market. Through this program, the VA makes short-term, high-cost training programs more attractive to veterans by paying benefits in a lump sum and by covering up to 60% of the cost of some educational programs. However, this program is now only available to men and women who seek training in high-tech programs.
  "For veterans between the ages of 20 and 24, the unemployment rate is 10.2% and for veterans 18-19 the unemployment rate is 26.4%, nearly double the unemployment rate of non-veterans in the same age group," said Senator Burns. "As a veteran, I know we can do better in aiding our brave men and women when they return home from service, transition back to private life and find employment in the career fields where their skills are needed."
  One specific way this legislation will directly benefit veterans can be seen in job training. For example one standard truck driver training program in Montana lasts 4 to 5 weeks and costs $4,000. Unfortunately, many Veterans are unable to afford this training, even with the $1,034 in G.I. Bill benefits that they may currently receive for this training. However, under the revised accelerated benefits program called for in the VET Act, that same Veteran would be eligible for 60% or $2,400 of the costs of the training.
  "One step we can take now is to ensure that those who serve have access to every educational opportunity possible," said Senator Burns. "By expanding eligibility for accelerated G.I. Bill benefits, we will give many of these veterans a new opportunity to get training and find work in some of the fastest growing sectors of our economy. This will keep our country moving on the right track and open up more opportunities for our men and women in uniform."
  Today Senator Ben Nelson (D-Neb.) joined the bill as the seventh Senate co-sponsor, a bipartisan group. 
   Senator Burns served in the United States Marine Corps from 1955-1957.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183, matt_mackowiak@burns.senate.gov.
 
 