SEN. BURNS VOTES TO KILL DEATH TAX
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R - Mont.) today voted to advance an effort to permanently repeal of the death tax, H.R. 8. The measure failed in the Senate by a vote of 57-41, falling short of the 60 votes needed.
  "I am extremely disappointed that we will not be able to provide relief for Montana's small businesses, ranchers and farmers who bear an unfair tax burden because of the death tax," said Senator Burns. "Our farmers and ranchers in Montana know when land appreciates, their value rises significantly, and often without any physical changes. Farms and ranches are valuable on paper but often cash poor and when the death tax comes due it is not welcomed. No one should have to sell the farm to save the farm." 
   "All too often politicians give lip service about keeping family farms and ranches sustainable," said Bill Donald, President of the Montana Stockgrowers Association. "This is Congress's opportunity to prove they actually mean what they say. Senator Burns has proven he is part of the solution and I ask other members of Congress to do the same."
   "The death tax makes it easy for wealthy people to come into a rural area and buy family farms and ranches," said Bob Hanson, Vice President of the Montana Farm Bureau Federation. "It makes it difficult to pass that same property on to the next generation of producers. In addition to the tax itself, there is the added cost of constantly maintaining up to date estate planning. We appreciate Senator Burns' vote on the estate tax - he has been a leader in trying to help rural Montanans keep their family business in the family."
   "As I've recently had to deal with inheriting a ranch and then paying a huge tax bill, I know the pain of the death tax," said Phil Rostead, a member of the Montana Stockgrowers Association. "The ranch doesn't generate the cash flow to pay the taxes, so a portion of my ranch is for sale, and a portion has already been sold just to cover the death taxes. We need to eliminate the death tax so we don't wind up selling our fourth generation ranches to wealthy out-of-staters. Senator Burns really understands this dilemma and is a supporter of correcting these inequities."
  The most recent, available Internal Revenue Service (IRS) figures show that Montanans paid over $35 million for the death tax in 2004 alone. Nationally, the amount Americans paid for the death tax in 2004 was over $21 billion.
  "Our small business owners understand that owning expensive equipment to run your business does not make you rich," said Senator Burns. "However, the IRS treats taxpayers as if they are rich based solely on the value of the business. Forcing a small business to pay an unreasonably high tax undermines job creation and innovation."
  Senator Burns has consistently voted to repeal the death tax in his career, including one such vote in 2000, two in 2002, and one in 2003.
  According to the federal tax code, the death tax can be as high as 55 percent on the value of assets. Unless Congress acts to repeal the death tax permanently, death tax reductions include in the tax relief we passed in 2001 and 2003 will be eliminated, making the maximum tax rate 55 percent in 2011.
  Critics of the death tax repeal call it a tax on the wealthy. However, Senator Burns believes the wealthy can afford to hire accountants to shield most of their assets and investment income from the Internal Revenue Service, and as a result, face a less burdensome tax on a decedent's estate. "Working Montanans cannot afford the death tax, let alone costly accountants, tax attorneys, and estate planners necessary to manage the federal tax obligation they would likely pay," said Senator Burns.
  Senator Burns is senior member of the Senate Small Business and Commerce, Science and Transportation Committees and former small business owner.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183, matt_mackowiak@burns.senate.gov.
 
 