SEN. BURNS BRINGING MEDICARE ENROLLMENT HELP TO MONTANA'S SENIORS
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) announced today that the Secretary of Health and Human Services Mike Leavitt has answered his request to help Montana's seniors with questions about the new Medicare Part D prescriptions drug benefit. Secretary Leavitt has directed the Center for Medicare Services (CMS) to make a state-wide bus tour across Montana's major population centers.  
   On January 20th, Senator Burns sent a letter to Secretary Leavitt requesting the bus tour, which travels the country with HHS staff answering questions about Part D and helping seniors enroll. In the letter, Senator Burns wrote, "It has recently come to my attention that the Department of Health and Human Services is conducting a bus tour in a number of states to help educate and enroll seniors in the new Medicare prescription drug benefit. To my knowledge, no such effort is currently scheduled for Montana. As such, I am writing to urge you to bring this effort to Montana to help seniors make informed choices about their prescription drug plan options." 
   Senator Burns' letter paid off today when HHS announced they would be sending the bus tour to 7 Montana cities beginning Saturday, March 25 and ending March 31. The scheduled cities and dates for the bus tour are as follows: 
   Saturday March 25 - Billings Clinic (2:00 PM - 4:30 PM) 
   Sunday March 26 - Gallatin Valley Mall, Bozeman (12:00 PM - 3:00 PM) 
   Monday March 27 - Capitol Hill Mall, Helena (9:30 AM - 12:30 PM) 
   Tuesday March 28 - United Way Conf. Center, Kalispell (9:00 AM - 12:00 PM) 
   Wednesday March 29 Southgate Mall, Missoula (9:00 AM - 12:00 PM) 
   Thursday March 30 - Westgate Mall, Great Falls (9:00 AM - 12:00 PM) 
   Friday March 31 - Butte Silverbow Incubator (9:00 AM - 12:00 PM) 
   Senator Burns said, "I'm very grateful Secretary Leavitt has responded to my letter and request to help Montana's seniors with a state-wide bus tour. The tour will allow our seniors to get the help they need to enroll in the Medicare drug program. I invite anyone who can make it to come down to the Billings Clinic or any of the other stops across the state, ask about Medicare Part D, and get help enrolling. It's going to be a great series of events and I'm looking forward to them."
 
 