SENATE, HOUSE LEADERSHIP PRAISE INCLUSION OF ANTI-METH LEGISLATION IN USA PATRIOT ACT
  Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-TN), House Speaker Dennis Hastert (R-IL), Senate President Pro Tempore Ted Stevens (R-AK), Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Sen. Jim Talent (R-MO) and Sen. Conrad Burns (R-MT) today held an enrollment ceremony for the USA Patriot Act.  
   At the ceremony, Senate and House leaders highlighted the inclusion of anti-methamphetamine provisions as part of the final USA Patriot Act conference report. Congressional leaders were joined by representatives from the Fraternal Order of Police who have voiced their support for the anti-meth legislation. 
   "Meth use is ravaging communities across America, and this legislation will make it more difficult for meth cooks to get the ingredients they need to make this poisonous drug," said Frist. "Combating this growing problem will help save American lives and improve the quality of life for millions more. This is another example of the Republican-led Congress' commitment to governing with meaningful solutions on the issues that matter most to Americans." 
   "Ensuring our national security is one of House Republicans' top priorities, and the Patriot Act keeps that commitment. This legislation guarantees that our law enforcement can keep the tools they already have in place to root out and prosecute terrorists, and it renews important information sharing provisions between government agencies," said Hastert. "It has been a long journey. But today, we can say we got it done." 
   "As founder of the Senate Anti-Meth Caucus, I've been proud of our bipartisan efforts in the Senate to fight the meth epidemic," said Burns. "Today we've given our law enforcement the tools they need to find, arrest, and prosecute the meth cooks and meth users terrorizing our neighborhoods. We need a sense of urgency in this country about meth, and the Combat Meth Act will greatly help us in this fight." 
   The key component of the Combat Meth Epidemic Act is establishing restrictions on the sale of medicines containing ingredients used to manufacture methamphetamine. Medicines containing pseudoephedrine, ephedrine and phenylpropanolamine (PPA) will be placed behind the counter. Purchasers will be limited to acquiring only enough medication containing meth ingredients as is necessary for legitimate medical use. 
   The methamphetamine provision is supported by the Fraternal Order of Police, National District Attorneys Association, National Attorneys General Association, National Alliance of State Drug Enforcement Agencies, Association of State Criminal Investigative Agencies, National Narcotics Officers' Associations Coalition, National Association of Police Organizations, National Sheriffs Association, NAADAC - The Association for Addiction Professionals, Therapeutic Communities of America and Kids Hope United.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183.
 
 