$53 MILLION IN ENERGY, WATER PROJECTS FOR MONTANA
  Sen. Conrad Burns and Rep. Denny Rehberg, both members of their respective house's Appropriations Committees and their subcommittees on Energy and Water Development, announced the list of Montana projects they included in the FY 2006 spending bill that passed out of conference today. Specific Montana projects totaled over $43 Million.  
   This bill is a huge win for Montana. Overall, it represents a serious federal investment in the everyday lives of Montanans. The funding for water projects in particular is absolutely vital to many rural Montana communities," Rehberg said. "You always want to try and squeeze a little more into these bills for Montana but it's important to work within the overall budgetary constraints. As Montana's only members of the committee that determines these federal spending priorities, Conrad and I have a seat at the head table when it comes to funding Montana projects. Working together, Conrad and I have Montana's back as these spending bills wind their way through Capitol Hill." 
   "There's a good chunk of funding in there for Dry Prairie and North Central water projects," said Burns. "We've also got some starter money coming for St. Mary's canal as well as some energy research projects that will utilize Montana's resources as their backbone, and the fuel cell research and coal-to-liquids projects will allow us to meet our energy needs and still become more energy independent. Specifically on the St. Mary's canal, we all agree there is much work to be done. It will be a long process to get this waterway repaired. The folks in the St. Mary Rehabilitation Working Group have put in countless hours with users, and State and Federal groups to find a long-term solution and I thank them for their invaluable help." 
   Clint Jacobs, coordinator of the Dry Prairie Rural Water Project said, "We are elated about the level of the FY 2006 appropriation and deeply grateful for our Montana Congressional Delegation. It is especially helpful to have both Senator Burns and Representative Rehberg on the Energy and Water Appropriations Committee - the source of our funding. We extend our thanks to all on behalf of present and future water users in northeast Monatna." 
   The Energy and Water Appropriations Bill will now go back to both the House and Senate floors for approval. Following their passage, they will go on to the President for his signature. 
   Rehberg and Burns were able to include several Montana-specific projects in this year's bill. Montana will also be receiving a portion of funds for nation-wide programs detailed separately below. 
   Montana specific projects in Energy and Water Appropriations include: 
   Fort Peck / NE Mont 
  Dry Prairie/Fort Peck Project Construction 
  $16,000,000 
   Bozeman 
  MSU - ZERT (Zero Emissions Research Technology) 
  $6,000,000 
   State 
  Rocky Boy's North Central Montana Regional Water 
  $5,750,000 
   Butte 
  MSE - WETO (Western Environmental Technology Office) 
  $5,000,000 
   Bozeman 
  MSU - HiTEC (High Temperature Electrochemistry Center) Fuel Cell Research and Development 
  $8,000,000 
   State 
  Rural Montana Water Program * 
  $5,000,000 
   State 
  Palladium Research Center - Fuel Cell research 
  $2,500,000 
   Yellowstone Valley 
  Coal to Liquids Research - continue development of clean coal to diesel technology 
  $2,000,000 
   Butte 
  MSE - Load Control System Reliability 
  $2,000,000 
   Hi-Line 
  St. Mary's Canal Rehabilitation Planning 
  $500,000 
   Yellowstone Valley 
  Yellowstone River Study 
  $400,000 
   * Towns able to compete for the 5 million in Rural Water funding include: Livingston, Missoula, Meagher County, Stevensville, Wisdom, and Sheridan 
   National projects Montana will receive a share of in Energy and Water Appropriations include: 
   State 
  RAMS - Rehabilitation of Abandoned Mine Sites (MSE) 
  $1,000,000
 
 