SEN. BURNS ANNOUNCES APPROVAL OF E-RATE LEGISLATION
  By unanimous consent, the United States Senate has approved E-Rate legislation, as part of telecommunications package H.R. 5419, co-sponsored by Sen. Conrad Burns (R-MT). This bill passed late last night after Sen. Burns insisted the Senate stay in session until final passage.  
   "Movement was taken earlier this year that completely disrupted this system," said Burns. "No warning of these accounting changes was given to Congress or anyone one that would be affected, and more than 35 schools and libraries in Montana have been impacted by this disruption of funding. It was crucial to pass this bill in order to drop this suspension of funds for so many schools, libraries, and rural hospitals. It took some arm-twisting and a bit of time, but I was committed to getting this through before sine die." 
   New accounting rules imposed by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) earlier this year led to a situation where the Universal Service Administration Company (USAC) suspended new funding commitments in the E-Rate and Rural Health Care programs, leaving all eligible E-Rate recipients without necessary funds. This legislation will exempt the Universal Service Fund from the Anti-Deficiency Act through December 31, 2005, allowing the USAC to immediately act on all pending E-Rate and Rural Health Care applications. 
   The following are some of the communities that have been affected by the disruption of funding: Arlee, Blue Creek Elementary (Billings), Butte Central, De La Salle Blackfeet Middle School (Browning), Edgar, Flaxville, Glasgow, Hardin, Hinsdale, Huntley-Project (Worden), Laurel, Livingston, Luther, Meager County Library, Miles City, Monforton, Moore, Opheim, Outlook, Plevna, Pryor, Rosebud, Rocky Hill, Roundup, Saco, Shepherd, Shields Valley, St. Charles, St. Labre, Three Forks, Toole County Library, Valier, West Yellowstone, and Wyola. 
   "This is not a small issue-many people have been negatively impacted, and it's a huge win that we were able to get this through before the Senate recessed," said Burns. 
   This bill will now go to the President to be signed into law.
   Contact: Jennifer O'Shea, 202/224-6830.
 
 