SEN. BURNS RECEIVES COMMUNITY BROADCASTERS ASSOCIATION LIFETIME ACHIEVEMENT AWARD
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) was honored today by the Community Broadcasters Association (CBA) their first-ever Lifetime Achievement Award for his contributions in support of the Class A and Low Power Television (LPTV) Industry. The CBA was in Washington today for the association's winter trip to the nation's capitol.  
   In 1997 Senator Burns became Chairman of the Commerce subcommittee on Communications, one of the major regulatory positions in Congress for the LPTV industry. Two years later Senator Burns introduced the Community Broadcasters Protection Act (CBPA) which was signed into law in 1999. 
   Senator Burns said, "I understand the issues broadcasters face in Montana, since that's where I got my start. I am humbled by this award and so pleased that our efforts on this issue have been helpful. We have important work ahead on digital television and spectrum reform, and we'll keep working closely with broadcasters, especially low power stations, to meet their needs." 
   Jason Roberts, president of the CBA said, "Senator Burns has been a champion on behalf of community broadcasters not only in Montana, but across the country. His efforts to ensure local programming and promote the low power television industry have been consistent and reliable, and the CBA felt it appropriate that such efforts be given a special honor such as our Lifetime Achievement Award." 
   The CBA represents 2,600 low power and 900 Class A and Class A qualified television stations nationwide. In Montana, CBA has 52 low power stations and 12 Class A stations. CBA is dedicated to the advancement of Class A and LPTV stations during the transition into the digital marketplace. The DTV transition has begun and will reach rural and low power stations in the near future. 
   Roberts said, "The DTV transition represents a historic opportunity to maximize efficient use of public resources to meet public needs. I look forward to working with Senator Burns to ensure that all Americans benefit from this transition, and that local programming and community broadcasters be given the opportunity to flourish in the digital world. The programming provided by our members is vital to the economic stability of the communities in which they serve, and their viewers will expect nothing less than a seamless transition." 
   Senator Burns is a senior member of the Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee and three-term U.S. senator.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183.
 
 