SEN. BURNS ANNOUNCES FIRE SAFETY, PREVENTION FUNDING FOR MELROSE, POLARIS, SIDNEY
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) today announced funding for Polaris, Melrose, and Sidney through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Awards program. In this round of grants, Grasshopper Valley Volunteer Fire Co. in Polaris will receive $14,850, and Melrose Volunteer Fire Department will receive $47,643, both for operations and firefighting safety programs. Richland County Health Department in Sidney will received a Fire Prevention and Safety Award in the amount of $19,800 for fire prevention.  
   "These fire department grants help ensure that Montana's firefighters have a consistent ability to do their jobs well, improve safety and save lives," said Burns. "In addition, the Fire Prevention and Safety Award that will go to Sidney will help educate the community and prevent deadly fires. The funding is crucial to our state and I will continue working closely with the fire service community to make sure their needs are met." 
   Fire Prevention and Safety Awards are year long grants made to assist State, regional, national or local organizations address fire prevention and safety issues with a focus toward the high-risk target groups of children, seniors, and firefighters. Allowable program activities under the Fire Prevention and Safety Program include public education and awareness activities, fire code enforcement activities, fire inspector certifications and other activities, purchase and installation of smoke alarms and fire suppression systems, wildland/wildfire mitigation, and arson prevention and detection activities. 
   The U.S. Fire Administration (USFA), a division of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), administers the Assistance for Fire Fighters Grant Program. The program assists rural, urban and suburban fire departments throughout the United States. A list of current award recipients announced to date is posted on the USFA web site at http://www.usfa.fema.gov/fire-service/grants/.
   Contact: Jennifer O'Shea, 202/224-6830.
 
 