SEN. BURNS ANNOUNCES MAJOR GRANT FOR MONTANA DRUG COURTS IN BILLINGS, BUTTE, LEWISTOWN, MILES CITY
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R - Mont.) today announced that the Montana Supreme Court will receive a $266,552 grant from the U.S. Department of Justice's (DOJ) Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention (OJJDP). The grant was specifically earmarked by Senator Burns in the Commerce, Justice, and Science Appropriations Subcommittee. The funding will sponsor the Montana Supreme Court's ongoing efforts to rehabilitate people afflicted with a drug or alcohol dependency. 
   "This program is not only a great asset to the families involved in the program, but also the families of Montana," said Senator Conrad Burns. "Professional rehabilitation programs offer the greatest way to combat addictive drugs, and more importantly these programs successfully reunite families."
  According to the OJJDP website, the agency "supports states and communities in their efforts to develop and implement effective and coordinated prevention and intervention programs and to improve the juvenile justice system so that it protects public safety, holds offenders accountable, and provides treatment and rehabilitative services tailored to the needs of juveniles and their families."
  This grant will enable the Montana Supreme Court to sustain four family and juvenile drug courts in Billings, Butte, Lewistown, and Miles City by providing the funding for drug court coordinators and operational costs. Since its start in 2001 the court has been able to provide valuable rehabilitation services to families who have been separated because of one of the parent's drug or alcohol dependency. This grant also helps to employ two halftime and two fulltime coordinators that help outline a roadmap/treatment plan for recovery and reunification of the family. 
  According Sherri Rafter, Program Coordinator for the Court Assessment Program, Montana Supreme Court, the efforts of the courts have enabled children to spend one-third less time in foster care because of facilities that enable the families to live together while parents are still in treatment. The courts are currently hoping to expand funding for these facilities so that more families are able to take advantage of the opportunity.
  Senator Burns is a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, which funds the U.S. Department of Justice.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183,
  matt_mackowiak@burns.senate.gov.
 
 