SEN. BURNS DISCUSSES AVIATION ISSUES
  In a Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee hearing today, Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) expressed his support for the Transportation Security Administration's (TSA) proposal to reopen Reagan National Airport to general aviation (GA). The hearing also examined the security procedures followed during the recent air incursion that caused the emergency evacuation of the White House and the U.S. Capitol buildings. Sen. Burns' comments will be available via satellite feed today.  
   "In the post-9/11 world, Congress and the Administration have been forced to make several difficult decisions," said Burns. "While I am not completely satisfied with the cumbersome security protocols associated with the plan to reopen Reagan, I am excited TSA has taken this first step, and with the vital role that general aviation plays in states like Montana, I am hopeful we can expand the program in the years to come." 
   He added: "Transportation and homeland security are extremely important issues, and we have a lot riding on our security being 'right' 100 percent of the time. We have several challenges ahead of us but I think we can view today as a step in the right direction." 
   Witnesses at the hearing included: Mr. Michael A. Cirillo, Vice President for System Operation Services, Air Traffic Organization, Federal Aviation Administration; Mr. Jonathan Fleming, Chief Operating Officer, Transportation Security Administration; Mr. Ed Bolen, President and Chief Executive Officer, National Business Aviation Association; Mr. James K. Coyne, President, National Air Transportation Association; Mr. Andrew Cebula, Senior Vice President, Aircraft Owners & Pilots Association. 
   Burns' Comments will be made available today via satellite feed at 1:45 pm MT, 3:45pm on: 
   Galaxy 3 
  Transponder 7-H 
  Downlink 3840 
   They will also be available on the web: http://burns.senate.gov/, and via phone at 1-800-545-1267, box 333.
   Contact: Jennifer O'Shea, 202/224-6830. 
 
 