SEN. BURNS SUPPORTS COAL TO LIQUID FUEL BILL
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R - Mont.) announced he is supporting S. 3325, Coal-to-Liquid Fuel Promotion Act of 2006, which was introduced May 26, 2006 by Senators Jim Bunning (R-Kent.) and Barack Obama (D-Ill.). 
  This bi-partisan bill will create tax incentives for coal-to-liquids (CTL) technology and the construction of CTL plants, making CTL a viable energy resource if passed.
   "I am pleased to join this effort to reduce our dependence on foreign oil by giving a shot in the arm to coal-to-liquid fuel technology," said Senator Burns. "We have more coal reserves in Montana than anywhere else in the country, and that coal has great potential for American energy independence and Montana's economic security. I will strongly support this bill because it will create jobs for Montana."
  Specifically, this legislation will expand the 20% tax credit for CTL plants (including the infrastructure needed to capture, transport and sequester carbon) capped at $200 million per plant and limited to 10 plants. It will also provide a similar provision for expensing these investments, but does not allow double dipping. Additionally, it will extend the fuel tax credit for CTL products from 2009 until January 1, 2020.
  In the CTL process, coal is gasified, the gas is run through the Fischer-Tropsch process, and the resulting fuel is refined into diesel. The final diesel product is cleaner than conventional diesel because most of the sulfur and nitrogen is removed during the Fischer-Tropsch process.
  The Coal-to-Liquid Fuel Promotion Act of 2006 is a three-part, comprehensive effort to create a vibrant domestic CTL fuel market, by:
  1) Enabling the Department of Energy to provide loan guarantees for construction and loans for the necessary planning of CTL plants. Loan guarantees will encourage private investment and planning loans will help companies prepare a plant for construction.
  2) Expanding investment tax credits and expensing provisions to include coal-to-liquids plants and extend the Fuel Excise Tax credit. These tax incentives build on the loans and loan guarantees by offering tax breaks during the multiple-year construction phase and during initial production at the plant. 
  3) Providing the Department of Defense the funding to purchase, test, and integrate these fuels into the Strategic Petroleum Reserve.
  Senator Burns is a member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183, matt_mackowiak@burns.senate.gov.
 
 