SEN. BURNS FUNDING EXPANDS 'FUELS FOR SCHOOLS' PROGRAM
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) today announced that new grants have been directed to five Montana communities from the Fuels for Schools program. Facilities in Kalispell, Troy, Dillon, Townsend and Lewistown will receive a combined $1.29 million from funds appropriated in the FY05 Omnibus Appropriations package.  
   The Fuels for Schools Program is a cooperative effort involving the State and Private branches of the Forest Service, state foresters, and local communities. The aim of the Fuels for Schools Program is to promote and encourage the use of wood biomass as a renewable, natural resource to provide a clean, readily available energy source suitable for use in heating systems in public and private buildings. 
   The program was successfully piloted in Darby and has since moved in the Victor and Philipsburg school districts. As well as to four schools spread across the state, this year's grants will also go towards the funding of a project at the Lewistown Hospital. 
   Burns said, "The Fuels for Schools program has been a real success. In only its third year we already have three prime examples of its benefits, and I'm excited to see that this year the technology will be moving to some other of our most important public institutions; our hospitals. These clean biomass systems are saving our local schools and communities thousands of dollars in winter heating costs and creating a market for small-diameter timber. I am happy to see this program grow and will continue to support it. " 
   The five projects include: 
   The University of Montana-Western in Dillon will be the first college campus in Montana to be heated with biomass. Construction is projected to begin in October of 2005 and wrap up in March of 2006. 
   The Central Montana Medical Center in Lewistown will be Montana's first public medical facility heated with biomass. Construction is projected to begin this June and be completed by November 2005. 
   The school districts in both Troy and Townsend will install the first boilers in Montana to burn pellets that are partially made of logging slash and the by-products of forest thinning projects. Troy and Townsend plan to have their new boiler systems operational by November of 2005. 
   The new Kalispell High School will also be fitted with a biomass boiler, to highlight the additional benefits of integrating biomass heat into new construction. The facility is still in the design phase, but plans are to install the biomass heating system in the summer/fall of 2006 and use biomass heat during construction during the winter of 2006-2007.
 
 