SEN. BURNS FIGHTS TO PROTECT CHILDREN
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R - Mont.) met today with Aaron Chatten, a father from Glasgow, Montana, and signed on to legislation that would improve the safety requirements for vehicles while parked or in reverse. This legislation would help prevent families from having to face the tragedy of injury or death of a child resulting from such accidents. Chatten's 14-month-old daughter Madison was killed May 3, 2005 at daycare when an SUV backed over her because the driver could not see Madison. Chatten was in Washington with KIDS and CARS, a national organization dedicated to improving the safety of children in and around parked vehicles.  
   The bill, S. 1948, the Cameron Gulbransen Kids and Cars Safety Act of 2005 is sponsored by Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton (D - NY). In addition to Sen. Burns, co-sponsors include Senators John Sununu (R - NH), Judd Gregg (R - NH), and Mike DeWine (R - Ohio). The bill has been referred to the Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee, of which Senator Burns is a senior member. 
   The bill would direct the Secretary of Transportation to issue regulations for vehicles that would require: 
   1) Automatic reversal of direction by power windows and panels when they detect an obstruction, to prevent children from being trapped, injured, or killed 
   2) A rear-ward visibility performance standard to prevent backing incidents 
   3) Engagement of the vehicle service brake in all key positions while the key is out of the ignition before the engine is started or the transmission is engaged, to prevent accidents resulting from vehicles accidentally rolling away. 
   This legislation would also direct the Secretary of Transportation to: 
   1) Establish a database of injuries and deaths in non-traffic, non-crash events involving passenger motor vehicles 
   2) Supplement a consumer information program on child safety or create a new program with information about hazards to children in non-traffic, non-crash incident situations 
   Senator Burns said, "I appreciate Aaron and this group coming to meet with me so I can better understand how easily we can prevent these tragic child deaths. This is a sensible, reasonable, and critical piece of legislation that sets some important safety standards for the industry. One child dying unnecessarily is unacceptable. I am pleased to have signed on as a co-sponsor and urge members to do the same. Many European cars already include these safety features, and I am hopeful that the U.S. automobile manufacturers will voluntarily begin installing these devices in all cars manufactured here. Protecting our children is the most important priority we have."
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183.
 
 