SEN. BURNS CALLS FOR ACTION ON RAIL COMPETITION BILL
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R - Mont.) today called on the Congress to take action on S. 919, the Railroad Competition Act, and bring relief to captive markets where railroad monopolies leave shippers without access to competition for rates and service. This morning, Sen. Burns spoke at a breakfast rally for the more than 200 industry representatives who came to express support for the Railroad Competition Act.  
   In a conference call with reporters today, Burns addressed the fundamental principle behind the legislation: "I was not sent to Washington to oversee a monopoly." Joining Burns for the press call were Kim Falcon, Executive Vice President of the Montana Wheat and Barley Committee, and Will Roehm, Treasurer of the Montana Grain Growers Association. 
   Senator Burns said, "The time has come for Congress to take action on this bill. I think we are reaching a critical mass. I know the railroad is a powerful lobby, but I am not going to stand idly by while industries all across America - agriculture, electricity, chemical, steel, paper products, and more - bear the burden of unreasonable rates, poor service, and congestion. In order for this country to remain competitive in a global marketplace, we must to have a healthy railroad and a healthy railroad means that companies are investing in their infrastructure and competing to attract customers. 
   "Right now, we have an unregulated monopoly that is costing America jobs and economic growth. The only sheriff in town - the Surface Transportation Board - charges folks $102,000 just to file a case and then it is almost certain that the STB will side with the railroads. I believe the STB has a duty to address markets where there is a lack of competition and they just aren't getting the job done." 
   Burns is a senior member of the Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee, which has jurisdiction over the railroad industry. The Railroad Competition Act currently has 10 co-sponsors. A House companion bill H.R. 2047, has 25 co-sponsors.
   Contact: Matt Mackowiak, 202/380-8183.
 
 