SEN. BURNS ADDRESSES FISCAL 2006 ARMY BUDGET ISSUES
  In a Defense Appropriations Subcommittee hearing this morning, focused on the Army's Fiscal Year (FY) 2006 budget, Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) listened to testimony from Dr. Francis Harvey, Secretary of the Army, and General Peter J. Schoomaker, Chief of Staff of the Army.  
   "It is because of today's 640,000 brave soldiers serving on active duty that we are winning this war on terror," said Burns. "Our soldiers, sailors, airmen and marines are performing magnificently. There is no doubt in my mind of the dedication these brave men and women have to their country and their work. Their increased optempo since the attacks of 9-11 and the beginning of the Global War on Terror does not, however, come without costs-costs not only to the active duty forces, guardsmen and reservists themselves, but to their families and employers as well. I am committed to working with the Army as we face new challenges ahead, and I looked forward to their testimony today to find out what initiatives are in place to address these challenges as we move forward." 
   "I am particularly interested about the Army's plan to increase the units and those skills that have been in high demand, and reduce those that have been in low demand, in both active and Reserve components," said Burns. "I am interested in what the timeframe is for this "rebalancing," and what the associated costs will be - our Montana Army Guardsmen and Reservists are affected by these changes." 
   Burns also has interest in the Army's modularity plan - especially when it comes to how the Army National Guard and Reserve forces will be restructured: "I agree that the Army's modularity initiative is a good idea, and I am glad to see that the FY06 Army budget includes funding to support this restructuring, but I want to know how our National Guard and Reserve troops will be affected by this plan and what the cost implications will be." The Army's modularity initiative would move the active Army from 33 to 43 Brigade Combat Teams (BCTs) and increase its combat power 30% by 2007. The Army National Guard is restructuring to reach 34 BCTs by FY 2010. Modularity is the Army's plan to reduce stress of the force with more time at home base for soldiers. When the Army's modularity plan is completed, it is envisioned that Army active duty would be deployed one year, then spend two years at home; the Army National Guard would spend one year deployed and five years at home; and, the Army Reserves would spend one year deployed and four years at home. 
   "Another issue that concerns me has to do with recent accounts which state that the Army, in February of this year, failed to meet its monthly recruiting goal. Some believe the Army may be in danger of missing its annual recruiting target for the first time since 1999. I am also hearing that recruitment for the Army's reserve component - the National Guard and Reserve - may be suffering even more as the Pentagon relies heavily on these part-time soldiers to maintain troop levels. The regular Army is 6% behind its year-to-date recruiting target; the Reserve is 10% behind; and, the Guard is 26% short. I was particularly interested to hear what steps Secretary Harvey and General Schoomaker are taking to address these challenges - namely what sort of incentives and recruitment strategies are being offered. As it turns out, I wasn't the only Senator concerned. Army leadership assured us that they, too, are concerned, particularly with the Guard numbers, and are taking action such as increasing recruiters to 12,000 and increasing recruitment incentives. I stand by ready to provide them with the tools they need to meet these challenges."
 
 