SEN. BURNS INTRODUCES LEGISLATION TO COMPENSATE RADIATION VICTIMS
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) today introduced the "Radiation Exposure Compensation Act Amendments of 2005" to make right the inequities that limit Montana's ability to seek benefit from the fund.  
   The Radiation Exposure Compensation Act (RECA) was enacted in 1990 to offer lump sum payments to civilians who lived in states designated "downwind" from Atmospheric Nuclear Bomb Tests in Nevada, and who contracted specific types of cancer, particularly thyroid cancer, years after their exposure to Iodine-131. Amended in 2000, the law now provides $50,000 per "downwinder" who resided in the states of Nevada, Utah and Arizona at the time of the testing and compensation for workers exposed to uranium in the states of Washington, Oregon, Idaho, Wyoming, North Dakota, South Dakota, Colorado, Arizona, New Mexico and Texas. However, a 1997 study by the National Cancer Institute illustrated that Montana is home to the single most Iodine-131 exposed county in the country. Moreover, the National Academy of Sciences recently issued a report detailing the fact that Montana is one of the worst affected states by the nuclear testing. 
   "The report was issued for a reason and the results have confirmed what we hoped was not true," said Burns. "My most important job in Congress is to protect the people of Montana when they've been subject to harm. And whether it comes from foreign threats or from service to improve the national security of the United States, the fact that Montanans face increased risk of injury and disease requires me to take action. This amendment will do nothing more than offer the people of my state the same compassion and support that has been offered to each and every state that surrounds us." 
   This bill amends RECA to include Montanans who have been afflicted with thyroid and other various cancers related to radiation exposure. To receive compensation the claimant must have lived downwind of atmospheric nuclear tests in certain Montana counties for a period of at least two years during the period beginning on January 21, 1951, and ending on October 31, 1958 and, after the period of physical presence, the claimant contracted one of the specified diseases. 
   "The pain and suffering of these folks has been ignored for too long," said Burns. "This bill will begin to make up for that, and I look forward to its speedy passage to help compensate Montanans who have been suffering."
   Contact: Jennifer O'Shea, 202/224-6830.
 
 