SEN. BURNS APPLAUDS SENATE VOTE TO PROCEED ON SMALL BUSINESS HEALTH PLANS
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont) today hailed the vote of the Senate to invoke cloture on the motion to proceed to S. 1955, his Small Business Health Plans bill that will increase the number of Americans with health insurance. The vote count was 96 - 2.  
  With cloture invoked, the Senate will now move to the business of giving small businesses the ability to offer their employees affordable health benefits. Specifically, S. 1955 will allow small businesses and the self employed to band together across state lines through trade organizations, thereby increasing their bargaining power with respect to purchasing health insurance the same way large companies and unions do. This will decrease costs and increase access for millions of Americans, many of whom do not presently have any coverage. 
  Senator Burns said, "I'm very encouraged the Senate has voted to proceed to debate on this important bill. Given that the vast majority of Montanans work for small businesses, this bill will mean more of our small businesses, farmers and ranchers will be able to offer their employees affordable health insurance. This is something I have been fighting for my entire Senate career." 
  S. 1955 has been endorsed by the National Federation of Independent Businesses, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, and the National Association of Realtors, just to name a few.
  At a press conference in April, NFIB presented Senator Burns with a petition signed by more than 6,000 Montanans calling on the Senate to pass Small Business Health Plans.
  A survey by the National Association of Realtors found that 89 percent of Americans favored allowing small businesses and the self employed to band together to through professional or trade organizations to obtain the bargaining power of large corporations, unions and the federal government when it comes to purchasing health insurance. 
  "As the Senate now moves to debate this important piece of legislation, my hope is that all Senators remain mindful of the ultimate goal of providing one of the largest sectors of our economy, small businesses and the self employed, the same opportunity large corporations have in providing their employees health insurance," said Senator Burns. "I've been a small business owner, and I've gone the majority of my life without health insurance. I know first hand how difficult it can be to afford this important benefit for employees as well as for my own family. Many small business owners offer their employees health insurance while going without themselves. They try to do the right thing by their employees, but cannot afford to cover their own insurance premiums. I urge the Senate to pass Small Business Health Plans so employers don't have to continue to make that painful choice. Let's do something good for the American worker this week, let's do something right. Let's make health insurance affordable for our small businesses and self employed so more Americans can have health insurance. Let's pass Small Business Health Plans."
 
 