SEN. BURNS TAKES OIL EXECS TO TASK OVER FUEL PRICES
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.), member of the Senate Commerce Committee, Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources' today took part in a joint hearing on energy pricing and profits. The hearing, which addressed the recent disclosure of double-digit profit increases following the recently catastrophic hurricane season, was called to seek information that aids the development of policy to lessen the burden of skyrocketing energy prices on the American people. Burns' comments during the hearing will be made available today via satellite feed at 1:45 pm MT.  
   "It's no secret that America's facing an energy crisis," said Burns. "We've got prices on transportation fuels like gas and diesel that are putting strain on every American family across the country, natural gas prices that are causing those families great concern as winter approaches, oil and gas production levels that have fallen through the floor after this year's hurricane season, and sky-rocketing competition with India and China for the readily available energy stores both here and abroad." He continued, "Montanans are particularly hard hit because so much of our economy depends on production agriculture, and the inputs into growing this country's food and fiber include fuel and fertilizer. And now, when the oil industry could alleviate American suffering and contribute to our energy future by investing in the domestic infrastructure, they go ahead and disclose record breaking third quarter profits. Add all that up, and I'd say the witnesses we have before us today have quite a bit of explaining to do." 
   Witnesses at today's hearing included ExxonMobil Chairman and CEO Lee Raymond, Chevron Chairman and CEO David O'Reilly, ConocoPhillips Chairman and CEO James Mulva, BP America President and CEO Ross Pillari, Shell Oil Co. President John Hofmeister, FTC Chairwoman Deborah Majoras, New Jersey Attorney General Peter Harvey, South Carolina Attorney General Henry McMaster and Arizona Attorney General Terry Goddard. 
   Burns has been a consistent supporter of diversifying America's domestic supply of fuel to places like the Rocky Mountain West, ANWR, and by developing the technology that can turn Montana's vast reserves of coal into ultra-clean burning gas and diesel. 
   "Everywhere I go in Montana, people from every corner of the state share with me their concerns about the high cost of fuel," said Burns. "It is our job now to move forward and make the right policy decisions with respect to this country's energy future, and that's the purpose of this hearing. Americans have the right to know whether they're being taken advantage of." 
   Burns' comments during the hearing will be made available via satellite feed today at 1:45pm MT, 3:45pm EST on: 
   AMC 1 
  Transponder 20-V 
  Downlink 4100 
  Audio 6.2/6.8 
  C-Band 
   His comments will also be available on the web at www.burns.senate.gov, and via telephone at 1-800-545-1267, box 333.
 
 