BASE REALIGNMENT AND CLOSURE COMMISSION BECOMES FINAL
  Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) announced today that the Base Realignment and Closure Commission (BRAC) proposals became final last night at midnight. Legislation establishing the BRAC process gives Congress 45 days, yesterday being the last day, to reject the BRAC report it received September 15 from President Bush. "I was confident we would get through these 45 legislative days without objection, and with MANG intact, and I am glad to see this period come to a close so we can move forward in this process," said Burns.  
   Burns testified in front of the BRAC Commission at a hearing in Portland, Oregon earlier this year on behalf of the Montana Air National Guard, along with Senator Max Baucus and Montana National Guard Adjutant General Randy Mosley. He has also held several meetings with Pentagon and BRAC officials regarding the Montana Air National Guard, and in August, the 2005 BRAC voted 9-0 to keep the flying mission of the Montana Air National Guard. Following the recommendations of the Montana Delegation and Great Falls Community, the BRAC Commission voted to move 15 F-15 aircraft to Great Falls while removing the 15 F-16s currently stationed at Great Falls International Airport, and those decisions became final today. 
   "I had said all along that the Pentagon's initial recommendation to realign the 120th Fighter Wing (FW) was seriously flawed, and I am happy to see that the BRAC Commission agreed," Burns continued. "I don't think the Department of Defense (DoD) really thought through their decisions, and I pleased at how well our state came together to present a good plan to the BRAC Commission. That, combined with many phone calls and meetings, both before and after the Pentagon released the BRAC recommendations, I think positioned us well. We now find ourselves at a point where these decisions are final, and I could not be happier at how we were able to turn the initial recommendations around for Montana."
   Contact: Jennifer O'Shea, 202/224-6830.
 
 