COAST TRANSIT AUTHORITY TO RECEIVE $12.7 MILLION IN FEDERAL TRANSIT AID
  South Mississippi's Coast Transit Authority will receive $12.7 million in federal funding as a result of the Fiscal Year 2007 Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act, Senators Thad Cochran (R-MS) and Trent Lott (R-MS) announced today. The funding represents a portion of the $35 million included in the bill for transit systems disrupted by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita.  
   "Despite the damage caused by Hurricane Katrina, the Mississippi Gulf Coast remains one of the most dynamic and fastest growing parts of our state," Senator Cochran said. "When population, traffic, and businesses are concentrated along a single coastline as in South Mississippi, traffic congestion becomes a major inhibitor to growth and a detriment to safety and quality of life. I am pleased the Federal Transit Administration has recognized the good work and vision of the Coast Transit Authority by providing this assistance."
   Senator Lott said: "As the Gulf Coast rebuilds its infrastructure and revitalizes the local economy, public transit certainly has an enhanced role to play. Transportation is a critical part of any community, and this funding will help ensure that the Gulf Coast retains an attractive mix of transportation options."
   The Coast Transit Authority, which was established by the Mississippi State Legislature in 1970, serves Jackson, Harrison, and Hancock Counties. It provides fixed-route bus service, service for persons with disabilities, and special services for senior citizens. This funding will be used aid in the replacement and maintenance of the Coast Transit Authority's fleet damaged by Hurricane Katrina while also providing assistance for operational costs.
   U.S. Department of Transportation Deputy Secretary Admiral Thomas Barrett is in New Orleans today to announce the portion of the funds to be directed at Louisiana. Other states receiving funding are Alabama, Texas, and Florida.
   Contact: Margaret Wicker McPhillips, 202/224-6414.
 
 