SENS. COCHRAN, LOTT ANNOUNCE HURRICANE RECOVERY GRANT
  Federal funding totaling more than $1.3 million has been awarded for Hurricane Katrina recovery costs, Sens. Thad Cochran and Trent Lott announced today. The grant, administered by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), is awarded to Harrison County to cover costs associated with debris removal.  
   "Municipalities along Mississippi's Coast have invested significant resources in debris removal activities as they rebuild infrastructure and oversee the safety of our citizens," Senator Cochran said. "I am pleased the Federal Emergency Management Agency continues to recognize the need for assistance, and I hope individual, local, and federal efforts will combine to continue to re-strengthen this important part of our state." 
   "Mississippi continues to make progress in our hurricane recovery effort, and this funding certainly contributes to our rebuilding effort," Senator Lott said. "Today as we announce this latest grant and we celebrate the reconnection of Mississippi's Coast with the opening of the rebuilt Bay St. Louis bridge, we are reminded of the hard work Mississippians have done, and the work that remains before us. And, I'm confident that despite all the challenges, resilient Mississippians will heal our state and make it stronger." 
   Details on today's award are as follows:
   $1,329,940 - HARRISON COUNTY - DEBRIS REMOVAL: High winds, heavy rains, and a high storm surge from Hurricane Katrina caused widespread damage to trees throughout Harrison County. The damage to trees which included hanging limbs and trees uprooted or otherwise which were leaning at an angle greater than 30 degrees. This created an immediate threat to health and safety since these trees and limbs could fall and injure or kill people or damage public or private property located beneath these trees. Harrison County contracted the removal of leaners and hangers throughout Harrison County that are endangering the public right of way. Leaners are trees leaning greater than 30 degrees with a diameter greater than 6" and hangers are hanging limbs with a diameter greater than 2". This $1,329,940.00 funds the Leaners and Hangers contract for public right of ways in Harrison County at 100% Federal Cost Share from August 29, 2005 to June 30, 2006. This version 2 along with previous versions brings the total funding for this project to $8,115,480.06.
   Contact: Margaret Wicker McPhillips, 202/224-6414.
 
 