HHS TO RELEASE HEALTH CARE FUNDS TO GULF COAST
  Sens. Thad Cochran (R-MS) and Trent Lott (R-MS) Reps. Roger Wicker (R-MS) and Chip Pickering (R-MS) today announced that the Department of Health and Human Services will release $60.5 million to help hospitals and health care centers on the Mississippi Gulf Coast.  
   A total of $160 million is being made available to the states of Alabama, Louisiana and Mississippi, for acute care hospitals and skilled nursing facilities facing financial pressures as a result of Hurricane Katrina. Mississippi will receive 38% of the amount being released. 
   "This announcement is good news for the people of the Mississippi Gulf Coast," Senator Cochran said. "The hospitals and skilled nursing facilities on the Coast will receive funding needed to elevate their operations to pre-Katrina levels. I am pleased that the Department of Health and Human Services has released these funds to help improve the health care capabilities of hospitals and health facilities in South Mississippi." 
  Senator Lott said: "Our health care facilities in the hurricane-stricken areas face challenges that must be alleviated if they are to continue providing quality care for patients. These funds will help ensure our health care facilities have the staff and resources needed to meet an array of health care needs, and I was pleased to work with Secretary Leavitt and the administration to assure Mississippi receives a fair share of these funds."
   "Restoring access to quality health care is one of the key components in rebuilding the communities in south Mississippi hit so hard by Hurricane Katrina," Rep. Roger Wicker said. "These funds will boost those efforts."
   Congressman Chip Pickering said, "To restore our communities on the Coast, we must rebuild our infrastructure, homes, schools, and health care facilities. These funds will assist in paying for the staff and resources necessary to provide professional and effective medical and health services to Gulf Coast Mississippians. We appreciate Secretary Leavitt working with the delegation and our state leadership to address these needs."
   Funds will be allocated based on each eligible hospital and skilled nursing facility's share of total Medicare payments under a prospective payment system for inpatient care under the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services.
   Contact: Margaret Wicker, 202/224-6414.
 
 