SEN. COCHRAN INTRODUCES BILL TO ASSIST PHARMACISTS
  Senator Thad Cochran (R-MS) has introduced a bill to help pharmacists continue to provide quality services for seniors in their communities by ensuring timely payment of Medicare claims. The Pharmacists Access and Recognition in Medicare (PhARM) Act, co-sponsored by Senators Mike Enzi (R-WY) and Mark Pryor (D-AR), was introduced today.  
   The bill will allow pharmacists to receive prompt payment within 14 days of submitting their claims to participating plans for drugs they dispense to Medicare enrollees. This change will ensure that pharmacists receive timely reimbursement for medications dispensed and can then be more efficient in their transactions. This legislation will empower pharmacists to give Medicare beneficiaries the access to affordable medicines that they need. 
   "Community pharmacists played a particularly important role in making the transition to the new Medicare Prescription Drug plan successful," said Cochran. "We are introducing a bill today to assist pharmacists as they continue to serve their patients and as they help to further the success of the Medicare drug benefit." 
   The Medicare prescription drug program, which was implemented last year, has been successful in providing access to medications for more than 30 million enrollees. Pharmacists have worked diligently to fill much-needed medications for Medicare patients since the beginning of the program. However, many pharmacies have not received timely reimbursement for the medications they provide for Medicare beneficiaries. Because pharmacies often serve as the primary point of delivery of health care information, ensuring access to community pharmacists is important. 
   "Pharmacists are on the front lines of a revolutionary change in Medicare that has brought long-overdue prescription drug benefits to our seniors over the last year and a half," Senator Enzi said. "I strongly support community pharmacists and realize that they face challenges as they help implement the most significant improvement to Medicare since its inception in 1965. This bill will protect the valuable role that pharmacists play in communities all across the country by ensuring that they are reimbursed in a timely manner." 
   Senator Pryor said: "I believe Medicare patients should have gotten a better deal with the Medicare drug benefit passed in 2003, and the program should have recognized the value community pharmacists bring to health care. Now I'm working to improve Medicare benefits for our seniors. Our bill keeps doors open at community pharmacies, emphasizes consumer choice, and strengthens pharmacists' ability to offer life-saving knowledge to seniors." 
   The PhARM Act also provides guidelines for Medication Therapy Management (MTM) programs offered by Medicare plans. These services are intended to ensure the appropriate use of the medications and improve outcomes for high-risk seniors. Pharmacists are uniquely qualified to provide these services. This bill calls for a 2-year community-based medication therapy management demonstration program using pharmacists to provide services. 
   The bill also eliminates branding on Medicare identification cards issued to seniors.
   Contact: Margaret Wicker McPhillips, 202/224-6414.
 
 