SEN. COCRHAN SPEAKS ON SOUTHWICK NOMINATION, CALLS OPPOSITION 'CONTRIVED'
  United States Senator Thad Cochran (R-MS) spoke on the Senate floor today in support of Judge Leslie Southwick for the Fifth U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals. The American Bar Association declared Southwick, who served on the Mississippi Court of Appeals, as unanimously "well-qualified."
   Senate Democrats and special interest groups have raised unfounded opposition to the nomination. The efficiency and efficacy of the court are negatively affected by delaying action to permanently fill this seat, which has been vacant since 2004 and is considered a judicial emergency by the Federal Judiciary. 
   Excerpts from Cochran's floor speech are below:
   "I have been very deeply disappointed with the response of Senate Democratic leaders to the President's nomination of Judge Leslie Southwick to serve as a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit.
   "I had expected that his nomination would move expeditiously through the Judiciary Committee and the Senate. He is eminently well qualified. But, the opposition of some members of the Senate Judiciary Committee and some outside political interest groups have slowed action on the nomination.
   "I have known Leslie Southwick for thirty years. His qualifications are beyond question. During his distinguished career, as a lawyer and a state court judge, he has earned the respect and admiration of liberals and conservatives, Democrats and Republicans, as well as fellow lawyers and judges who have worked closely with him and who know him well.
   "He is fair and thoughtful and would be an outstanding federal court of appeals judge. The judiciary would be well served by his leadership and his knowledge of the law. He will reflect enormous credit on the Federal Judiciary.?.
   "I know the Judiciary Committee has had a hearing. I was pleased to introduce Leslie Southwick at that time with my colleague, Senator Lott. It never occurred to me at any moment that there would be any question raised about the integrity, the sense of fairness, the qualifications, or the fitness to serve as a United States Court of Appeals Judge during the consideration by the Senate of this nomination.?.
   "I hope you can sense the sincerity and seriousness of purpose of those who have written and the high quality of the people who have authored these letters. So, to me, it is a dark and sad day in the United States Senate that one of its committees, the Judiciary Committee, is considering recommending that Judge Southwick not be confirmed for service on the United States Court of Appeals. 
   "It's unthinkable. But, from information that I've received from those who have talked to all the members of the committee on the Democratic side, that might happen. I don't know when a meeting will be scheduled, but I hope that there's an opportunity for reflection and careful consideration of action before that meeting does occur.?.
   "I have always felt a special kinship for the members of that committee, knowing about the workload and the volume of information that has to be processed by the members to stay up to date with the legislation that's referred to the Judiciary Committee. I have an appreciation for the challenges that are faced.
   "I particularly think, on a nomination that comes along, not from your state, not from your area of the country, you have to take a look at what the facts are, make a decision and move along. Well, I hope the Judiciary Committee will take another look at this nomination and look at what has been said about the nominee and his qualifications and his entire career. It has been one that has reflected good judgment, a concern for his fellow citizens, whether they are black or white or Hispanic and whether they are democrats or republicans. 
   "He is the ideal choice for this kind of job. And to contrive - absolutely contrive reasons to persuade others to vote against the nominee really creates a bad feeling and a sense of unfairness that is pervading the Body."
   Contact: Margaret Wicker McPhillips, 202/224-6414.
 
 