SENATE PANEL APPROVES FUNDING FOR HEALTH, EDUCATION, INTERIOR
  The Senate Appropriations Committee approved three Fiscal Year 2008 spending bills today to fund the Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Interior as well as the legislative branch of government. Significant funding to benefit Mississippi was included in the legislation announced Thad Cochran (R-MS), ranking Republican on the Committee.  
   "I am pleased that the committee has recognized many of the needs that exist in Mississippi in the areas of health care, education, economic viability, and natural resources," Senator Cochran said. "Initiatives that support our state's workforce, make our health care system more robust, and improve the quality of education are much needed. As we move forward through the appropriations process, I will continue to work with my colleagues to ensure that Mississippi receives the funding it needs."
   Mississippi colleges and universities would receive approximately $18.7 million for education, health, workforce, and natural resources initiatives. Included among other initiatives is funding for mental health support at Jackson State University, improved telecommunication education at Mississippi State University, high performance material workforce training at the University of Southern Mississippi, pharmaceuticals research at the University of Mississippi, and immersive international study at Tougaloo College.
   This legislation would also provide underserved parts of the state with close to $32 million for healthcare initiatives. In addition, funding is made available for improvements to Okhissa and Smith County Lakes, wastewater infrastructure projects throughout the state, to the Corporation for National and Community Service for a training campus in Vicksburg, and to aid the state in the acquisition of Cat Island for environmental preservation purposes.
   Significant funding increases supported by Senator Cochran for federal initiatives supporting education in foreign languages, writing, the arts, and economics as well as notable support for the State Wildlife Grants Program are also included in the legislation agreed to by the Appropriations Committee today. 
   The three bills will now be reported to the Senate floor for approval by the full Senate.
   Contact: Margaret Wicker McPhillips, 202/224-6414.
 
 