SEN. COCHRAN ANNOUNCES EMERGENCY FUNDING FOR MISSISSIPPI
  Legislation was filed in the House of Representatives today to provide supplemental funding for the Global War on Terror and to respond to natural disasters that have hit the United States in recent years. The agreement includes assistance for Mississippi to help in continued Hurricane Katrina recovery efforts. The House is expected to approve this supplemental funding this afternoon and the Senate will then act on the legislation. 
   Cochran said: "This emergency funding for our troops fighting the Global War on Terror is long overdue. Our men and women in uniform need the assistance provided in this legislation and I am glad the leadership of Congress has at last presented a bill that provides support for troops without compromising our mission in Iraq.  
   "The legislation also includes much needed funding for continued recovery on the Gulf Coast," said Cochran. "Funds in this bill will aid Mississippi citizens and communities still recovering from the effects of Hurricane Katrina. Despite the tremendous progress that has been made on the Coast through federal, local, and individual cooperation, more assistance is required in order for this important part of our state to regain its quality of life and fully return to economic prosperity"
   Information on items of interest to Mississippi follows below.
   Disaster Relief Fund
   $4.26 billion is provided for the disaster relief fund. This will in part fund the cost of the cost share waiver for FEMA public assistance (PA) and other needs assistance (ONA) programs for recovery associated with Hurricanes Katrina, Wilma, Dennis, and Rita in the states of MS, LA, AL, FL, and TX. President requested $3.4 billion.
   Corps of Engineers
   $107m is appropriated for Corps of engineers work to complete hurricane protection measures along the MS coast. 
   Social Services Block Grants
   Language is included to extend the authorization of the Social Service Block Grant program. This will ensure that the health care and social services communities that were so vital to recovery on the coast in the aftermath of hurricane Katrina but were also damaged, are able to be made whole again. Currently the SSBG authorization ends at the end of this Fiscal Year. However, at the end of FY 2007 all of the funds that were needed and appropriated will not have been used. The language in this bill will extend the authorization through FY 2008. 
   Emergency Forestry Conservation Reserve Program
   Language is included to allow timberland owners who were affected by the 2005 hurricanes to restore and replant timber. 
   Community Development Loan Program
   FEMA is granted the authority to forgive disaster-related loans under the Community Development Loan program. 
   Coast Transit
   $35 million is provided for the rehabilitation of the mass transit systems in Mississippi and Louisiana that were destroyed by Hurricane Katrina.
   Innovative Education 
   $30 million is included to provide for teacher recruitment and retention in grades K-12. 
   Higher Education
   $30 million is included to provide assistance to eligible institutions based on un-reimbursed expenses such as tuition and fees lost as a result of Hurricane Katrina. 
   Edward Byrne Discretionary Grants
   $50 million is included for Edward Byrne Discretionary Grants for state and local law enforcement agencies and initiatives in the Gulf Coast states affected by Hurricane Katrina. This funding shall be distributed to the States in relation to their level of violent crime as estimated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation's Uniform Crime Report for 2005. Mississippi's estimated portion is $7.4 million. 
   NOAA - Operations, Research, and Facilities
   Of the $85 million provided for the National Marine Fisheries Service, in accordance with the distribution of funds voted on by the Gulf States Marine Fisheries Commission, MS should receive $23 million for fisheries assistance programs. 
   Of the $500,000 provided to continue to repair and replace tide gauge stations throughout the Gulf region, according to NOAA's priority list approximately half of the funds should be used for tide gauge stations along the MS portion of the Gulf Coast.
   NASA: Exploration Capabilities
   $20 million is provided for risk mitigation projects at NASA.
   Small Business Administration Disaster Loans 
   $25,000,000 is made available for loans to preexisting businesses located in the 2005 hurricane affected disaster areas of the Gulf Coast.
   Contact: Margaret Wicker McPhillips, 202/224-6414.
 
 