SENS. COCHRAN, LOTT ANNOUNCE $1.9 MILLION FOR COAST TRANSIT
  The U.S. Department of Transportation will provide the Coast Transit Authority with nearly $2 million in federal funding designated by the Senate during the Fiscal Year 2005 appropriations process, Senators Thad Cochran and Trent Lott announced today. The funding will be used for rehabilitation of a vehicle maintenance facility and replacement of electronic communications and fare collection equipment. 
   "More than two years after Hurricane Katrina hit the Gulf Coast, we must continue to take every possible step to ensure that the federal government does its part to support the rebuilding effort," Senator Cochran said. "The Coast Transit Authority provides an invaluable service by relieving traffic congestion along the Coast and will prove to be an integral asset in ensuring that all Mississippians affected by Katrina have an opportunity to return to work."
   Senator Lott said, "Having a quality transportation system is a key component of rebuilding the Gulf Coast. We'll continue working to ensure that coast residents have a variety of public and commercial transportation options."
   The grant provides for preventive maintenance and purchase of replacement digital mobile two-way radio equipment and hands free mounting hardware for the entire revenue vehicle fleet, support vehicles and dispatch office. Additionally, it will provide for the purchase of replacement electronic fare collection equipment for revenue vehicles and new stationary electronic fare sales equipment. The grant also funds renovations to the maintenance facility, including the replacement of all exterior wall panels and insulation and application of an epoxy floor refurbishing system to the facility's concrete floor.
   The Coast Transit Authority, which was established by the Mississippi State Legislature in 1970, serves Jackson, Harrison, and Hancock Counties. It provides fixed-route bus service, service for persons with disabilities, and special services for senior citizens.
   Contact: Margaret Wicker Mcphillips, 202/224-6414.
 
 