SENATE COMMERCE, JUSTICE, SCIENCE PANEL APPROVES CLOSE TO $138 MILLION IN FUNDING FOR MISSISSIPPI
  The Senate Commerce, Justice, and Science Appropriations Subcommittee approved nearly $138 million in funding for Mississippi, including more than $41 million for Mississippi universities, Sen. Thad Cochran (R-MS) announced today. Cochran serves as the top Republican on the Senate Appropriations Committee.  
   "Mississippi universities and researchers are leading the way in the types of initiatives funded through Commerce, Justice, and Science," Senator Cochran said. "I am pleased our state will be able to play a significant role in continuing to find the most innovative ways for our nation to fight crime, preserve resources, and deliver goods and services."
   Highlights within the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's funding include $11 million for the Center for Marine Aquaculture at the University of Southern Mississippi, $6.3 million for the Cooperative Institute for the Northern Gulf led by Mississippi State University, $6 million for the National Institute for Undersea Science and Technology based at the University of Mississippi and USM, and $38 million for NOAA activities at the Stennis Space Center.
   Included in Department of Justice funding would be $2 million for the Regional Cyber Crime Fusion Center at Mississippi State University, $3.5 million for the National Center for Justice and the Rule of Law at the University of Mississippi School of Law, $1.5 million for the Automated Systems Project at the University of Southern Mississippi, $1.5 million for the National Center for Biodefense Communications at Jackson State University, $2 million for the Judicial Threat Analysis Center at Alcorn State University, $1 million for the Local Initiatives Support Corporation in Jackson, and $5 million for methamphetamine policing and law enforcement equipment upgrades through the Mississippi Department of Public Safety.
   Under the science portion of the bill, the University of Mississippi Medical Center would receive $8 million for a Biotechnology Research Park, the University of Mississippi School of Law would receive $3 million for the National Center for Remote Sensing, Air and Space Law, Mississippi State University would receive $8 million to expand its research park, and the University of Southern Mississippi would receive $2 million for the Innovation and Commercialization Park. Additionally, $8 million would be directed to Stennis Space Center for NASA activities.
   The bill will be considered later this week by the full Senate Appropriations Committee.
   Contact: Margaret Wicker McPhillips, 202/224-6414.
 
 