SENS. COCHRAN, ROCKEFELLER INTRODUCE NATIONAL WRITING PROJECT ACT
  Sens. Thad Cochran (R-MS) and Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) introduced legislation today to reauthorize a program focused on improving writing education. The National Writing Project was originally authorized in 1991 by legislation introduced by Sen. Cochran and remains the only Federal program to enhance the teaching of writing in America's classrooms.  
   The National Writing Project Act of 2007 reauthorizes the use of grants from the Department of Education to provide training for teaching writing in all subject areas. The National Writing Project, headquartered in California, would continue to award competitive grants for the nearly 200 authorized centers at Colleges and Universities in all 50 states. The National Writing Project is based on the model of teachers teaching teachers. Experienced teachers would continue to share and develop the latest and most successful instructional techniques and then lead similar local workshops and training sessions for their colleagues. 
   "Writing is a basic component of literacy; and literacy is essential for success in life. Writing is not confined to thesis papers, college essays, and book reports," said Cochran. "The writing skills necessary for employment in the 21st Century require not only the grammar, construction and analytical thought of traditional writing, but also the expertise to communicate effectively using new technology. Effective instruction in writing comes from teachers with ability, who continuously develop their teaching skills." 
   Senator Rockefeller said: "Writing is one of the most essential elements of communication. Words have the power to change the world. In today's day and age, teachers must have the resources and the training they need to help empower their students to develop finely-honed skills."
   A poll conducted by Belden Russonello & Stewart announced yesterday that Americans overwhelmingly want writing taught throughout school curriculum. Research shows that students taught by National Writing Project teachers demonstrate more improvement and higher overall writing performance than their peers.
   The National Writing Project is a No Child Left Behind program.
   Contact: Adam Telle, 202/224-6408.
 
 