SENS. COCHRAN, LOTT, REP. THOMPSON ANNOUNCE DELTA REGION GRANTS
  Federal funding totaling more than $500,000 has been awarded for development of the Mississippi Delta region, Sens. Thad Cochran, Trent Lott, and Rep. Bennie Thompson announced today. The grants, administered by the Delta Regional Authority (DRA), are awarded for the construction of the B.B. King Museum & Delta Interpretive Center in Sunflower County and to the City of Crystal Springs for water and sewer improvements.  
   "The Delta Regional Authority is helpful to Mississippi communities that want to take advantage of their unique strengths and stimulate regional economic development," Senator Cochran said. "Along with Mississippi's proud cultural heritage, the work ethic and strong values of our citizens make our state an ideal place for businesses to locate. These investments will help bring new jobs and amenities to Mississippi."
   "The Delta is a unique part of Mississippi and a unique part of America," Senator Lott said. "It has more than rich soil, but a rich history that has contributed culturally to our nation and to the entire world, particularly with regard to music. I've worked to support a number of interpretive centers around our state that help communicate Mississippi's story, and certainly this project will help preserve and foster Mississippi's blues legacy for generations to come."
   "This is a great day for the Copiah and Sunflower County communities in the Second Congressional District in Mississippi to receive this critical funding," Congressman Thompson said. "These grants will provide the counties with the opportunity to improve infrastructure and preserve the heritage of communities in the Second Congressional District." 
   The Delta Regional Authority is a federally mandated entity which was established by Congress to foster regional cooperation and stimulate economic development in eight states and 240 counties and parishes along the southern portion of the Mississippi River. Counties in the western two-thirds of Mississippi are classified under the Authority's jurisdiction.
   Details on today's awards are as follows:
   * $250,000.00 is awarded to the City of Crystal Springs for water and sewer infrastructure to facilitate the location of a new business at a previously undeveloped location. Funds will be used to construct approximately 10,000 linear feet of 10 inch PVC waterline from the existing elevated water tank near Hwy 27 and Hwy 51, paralleling Hwy 27 to Interstate 55 / Hwy 51 intersection. Additionally, funds will be used to construct an 80 GPM pump station with 1600 linear feet of 8 inch diameter gravity sewer lines and approximately 5,550 linear feet of 4 inch force main will be installed along the same path as the waterline. Water and sewer service must be installed to provide the basic infrastructure for the location of a hotel and restaurant. 
   * $256,500.00 is awarded to construct the B.B. King Museum & Delta Interpretive Center in Sunflower County. Funds will be used to construct the B. B. King Museum and Delta Interpretive Center a 15,000 square foot facility and renovate an old brick cotton gin on the site which was once a place of employment for the legendary B. B. King. The B. B. King and Delta Interpretive Center will provide a hub attraction for tourists. The Economic Development Administration will be providing an additional $1 million in funding to be used for this project.
   Contact: Margaret Wicker McPhillips, 202/224-6414.
 
 