SEN. COLEMAN STAFF TO DISCUSS HIGH GAS PRICES, NEW ENERGY LEGISLATION IN SOUTHEASTERN MINNESOTA
  As part of an ongoing effort to hear how high gasoline prices are specifically impacting local residents and businesses across Minnesota, Sen. Norm Coleman today announced John Halverson, regional representative for Coleman, and Luke Friedrich, Minnesota Press Secretary, will be traveling to southeastern Minnesota on Tuesday, May 9th to discuss high gas prices and Coleman's recently introduced energy legislation with local officials, businesses and residents. The trip will include stops in the following communities: Hastings, Red Wing, Lake City, Wabasha and Winona.  
   "In the face of high gas prices, it is crucial for me to hear directly from folks across the state on how these prices are specifically impacting them, as well as hear any additional ideas they may have in helping combat rising prices," said Coleman. "Additionally, I want to let Minnesotans know I am continuing to work for a national energy strategy that will boost innovative technologies, conserve energy, and promote the production and use of renewable fuels - which will not only reduce our foreign oil dependence but provide a boon to Minnesota's rural economy. I am anxious to have John and Luke in the Highway 61 corridor to listen to the concerns and ideas of local residents, and to relay them back to me." 
   Last week, Coleman introduced the Energy Efficiency Act of 2006, a bipartisan bill he is co-authoring, which will reduce foreign oil dependence by establishing specific national goals for replacing oil imports through a significant expansion of renewable fuel infrastructure, increased use of vehicle technologies such as hybrids, and increased conservation measures. As a complement to this bill, Coleman also announced introduction of the Enhanced Energy Security Act, which will expand incentives for the purchase and production of advanced vehicles such as hybrids and fuel cell, along with containing key incentives to help save natural gas. 
   Additionally, Coleman recently introduced the Transforming Energy Now (TEN) Act, legislation that would require 10 percent of our nation's fuel to be blended with renewable fuels, such as ethanol, in the next 10 years and also includes E-85 infrastructure provisions that will invest millions in fueling stations for alternative fuels. 
   Specifically, trip will include stops at the following locations: 
   Tuesday, May 9, 2006 
   8:00 a.m. 
  Hastings Area Chamber of Commerce & Tourism Bureau 
  111 East Third St, Hastings 
   10:00 a.m. 
  Red Wing Area Chamber of Commerce 
  439 Main St, Red Wing 
   11:45 p.m. 
  Lake City Chamber of Commerce 
  101 West Center St, Lake City 
   1:30 p.m. 
  Historic Anderson House 
  333 Main St. West, Wabasha 
   3:30 p.m. 
  Winona Area Chamber of Commerce 
  160 Johnson St, Winona
   Contact: Luke Friedrich, 651/645-0323.
 
 