SENS. COCHRAN, LOTT ANNOUNCE NOMINATION OF JUDGE LESLIE SOUTHWICK TO 5TH CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
  The President announced today his intention to nominate Judge Leslie Southwick to serve as a federal judge for the 5th Circuit Court of Appeals.  
   Southwick, who currently resides in Jackson, has served on the Mississippi Court of Appeals since 1995. He was previously nominated to serve as a federal judge for the Southern District of Mississippi. Judge Southwick had been approved by the United States Senate Committee on the Judiciary and was awaiting consideration by the full Senate. He has also served as a Deputy Assistant Attorney General in the United States Department of Justice.
   "Leslie is extremely well qualified for this position, and I hope his nomination will move quickly through the Judiciary Committee without any significant delays. He will be a fair and thoughtful federal judge, and our state will benefit from his leadership and knowledge of the law," said Cochran.
   Lott said, "I'm pleased the President nominated a Mississippian, Judge Leslie Southwick, to serve on the 5th Circuit Court of Appeals," Senator Lott said. "It's very important that our state have a presence on this key federal court. Given his educational qualifications and prior judicial experience, I'm confident that Judge Southwick will serve the 5th Circuit with distinction."
   Southwick was in private practice with the Brunini, Grantham, Grower, & Hewes law firm in Jackson from 1977 to 1989, becoming a partner in 1983. He has also taught as an adjunct professor for the Mississippi College School of Law since 1998.
   He received his law degree from the University of Texas in 1975. After graduation, he served as a law clerk for Chief Judge John F. Onion, Jr., for the Texas Court of Criminal Appeals in Austin, TX, and later as a law clerk for Judge Charles Clark for the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals.
   Southwick has also served in the Judge Advocate General's Corps with the U.S. Army Reserves and as an instructor at both the Mississippi National Guard and the United States Military Academy at West Point.
   He won the Judicial Excellence Award from the Mississippi State Bar in 2004.
   He is married to the former Sharon Polasek and has two children, Philip (age 27) and Cathy (age 23).
   Contact: Margaret Wicker, 202/224-6414.
 
 