SEN. TESTER EXPLAINS HIS FIRST VOLUNTARY ETHICS AUDIT
  Ethics reform has been a top priority of mine since I joined the Senate last year. The first order of business when I went to work was to pass the most sweeping ethics reform bill since Watergate. And last week, we made history again-this time by becoming the first Senate office to hold a voluntary ethics audit. 
   Upholding the highest ethics standards is something I promised to do more than two years ago while running for this seat. It's important to me that the people of Montana know exactly how my staff and I conduct the people's business.
   Montanans deserve honesty, openness and transparency.
   That's why I asked Judge John Sheehy to conduct my very first ethics audit. Judge Sheehy is a former member of the Montana Supreme Court with a distinguished record of integrity and fairness, and I'm honored he agreed to audit my office.
   Here's how the ethics audit works: my office is currently sending boxes of documents and records from 2007. They include my personal financial disclosure forms, my total daily schedule for 2007, my requested earmarks, my voting record and my office's travel records.
   Using the Senate Ethics Rules as a guideline, Judge Sheehy will spend several weeks combing over all these records. If he needs more information or if he has any questions, he'll ask my office.
   In about a month, we hope to see a written report from Judge Sheehy, explaining what he finds. He'll be looking for any inconsistencies or problems, and I expect he'll shoot straight I'm particularly interested in seeing the opportunities for improvement.
   From there I'll decide the best way to continue making sure that my staff and I uphold the highest ethical standards possible. And I'll share that audit with the people of Montana.
   Openness and transparency are critically important to me. That's why I signed a Code of Ethics before taking office. That's why I was the first U.S. Senator to post my schedule online. And that's why I've banned all lobbyist gifts and meals.
   I believe that good government has nothing to hide. And serving a state like Montana, it's only expected of me.
   As always, I'm interested in hearing from you. Feel free to contact my office toll-free in Montana at 866-554-4403.
 
 