SENATORS TO HOLD TOWN HALL MEETING ON BC MINE PROPOSALS
  Montana's U.S. Senators are inviting Flathead residents to come learn about Canada's proposed Coal and Coalbed Methane Projects in the North Fork of the Flathead. Next Thursday, Senators Max Baucus and Jon Tester will hold a town hall meeting in Kalispell to talk about the threats posed by proposed industrial developments in British Columbia; including a proposed coal bed methane project and the Cline Mine. 
   The town hall meeting will be attended by Flathead Basin Commission members and Rich Moy, Chief of the Water Management Bureau at the Montana Department of Natural Resources and Conservation. Also there to provide information and answer questions will Ric Hauer, UM Professor at the Flathead Lake Bio Station, representatives from the Flathead Coalition, Glacier National Park, local businesses and U.S. and Canadian conservation groups.
   "Folks deserve to know exactly what is going on with these proposals," said Baucus. "The bottom line is, these projects will effect Glacier and the Flathead. We will not stand quietly by and let upstream industrial activity affect our quality of life in Montana."
   "Max and I want to make sure all folks in the Flathead have access to as much good information as possible," Tester said. "Good information leads to good public policy, and it's one of the best tools we have in the fight against irresponsible development in Canada."
   "We applaud the Senators continued vigilance in protecting both the economic and ecological interests of the Flathead Basin," said Caryn Miske, Executive Director of the Flathead Basin Commission. "Apprising the public of the risks, and working to develop a long term solution to address the proposed industrialization of the BC Flathead will be the focus on the meeting on February 21st."
   Town Hall Meeting On Canadian Mining Proposals: 
   Who: Senators Max Baucus and Jon Tester and the Flathead Basin Commission
   What: Town Hall Meeting On Canadian Mining Proposals 
   Where: FVCC Arts and Technology Bldg, Kalispell
   When: 3:00 to 4:00 p.m., Thursday, February 21
 
 