$1 MILLION INVESTMENT TO HELP MONTANANS ACHIEVE AMERICAN DREAM
  The American Dream will soon be a reality for more Montanans as $1 million in funding today cleared a key Senate panel, which will enable more folks in Missoula to own their own homes. 
   Senators Max Baucus and Jon Tester requested the funding for homeWORD - a Missoula-based program that helps Montanans go from renting to purchasing their own homes. The funding cleared the Senate Transportation, Housing, and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee.
   The senators said the funding will be used to build 90 units of affordable housing in Missoula and to create opportunities for asset building. Through a mix of housing options, homeWORD will provide choices for families working towards homeownership and in need of stable safe housing for their families. This housing will be built using state of the art green building principles in order to provide highly energy efficient homes that will lower the utility costs for its residents and be healthy for its occupants and the surrounding community. 
   "A family owning its own home is part of what defines us as Montanans and Americans," Baucus said. "I want to help more Montanans achieve the American Dream, which will also help them invest in their future that's why I teamed up with Jon to secure this funding."
   "It's an exciting day when folks sign on the dotted line and purchase their own home," Tester said. "I want more Montanans to be able to have that opportunity. Max and I worked together to secure these dollars so more Montanans can buy their own homes and have a stronger financial future.
   Besty Hands with homeWord in Missoula was thrilled with today's announcement.
   "On behalf of homeWord I thank Senators Baucus and Tester for helping to secure this funding," said Hands. "Our economic future depends on affordable housing for our workforce. This is good news for homeWord and our state."
   The THUD Appropriations bill is expected to go before the full Senate Appropriations Committee within the next week.
 
 