DELEGATION URGES AGRICULTURE SECRETARY TO KEEP FARM SERVICE OFFICES OPEN
  Montana's Sens. Max Baucus and Jon Tester and Rep. Denny Rehberg on Monday, Feb. 12, met with Department of Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns and urged him to reject a proposal to close FSA offices because they provide vital services to Montana's ranchers and farmers.  
   The USDA is considering closing seven FSA offices in Montana, citing that it will be more efficient to consolidate office locations. The delegation said FSA offices provide important services for producers such as emergency assistance payments and sign-ups for all farm programs. The three men today urged Secretary Johanns to reject any proposals that would close FSA offices in Montana. 
   The delegation also encouraged Secretary Johanns to fully fund vital agriculture research programs that are could receive funding cuts this year. Since Congress has decided not to have earmarks - funding for specific projects - this year Baucus, Tester and Rehberg urged Secretary Johanns to ensure that USDA provides funding for agriculture programs that are important to Montana. The delegation stated that investing in research is vital to Montana's agricultural future. 
   "Montanans should not have to travel farther or clear additional hurdles to access farm programs - it's common sense to keep the FSA offices open," Baucus said. "Agriculture is the backbone of our state's economy and we should be investing in it. I'm committed to working together with Jon and Denny to ensure that Montana's agriculture industry has a bright and successful tomorrow." 
   "I'm glad I had the opportunity to speak with Secretary Johanns this afternoon and express to him my great concern with the current proposal to shut down seven FSA offices in Montana. Family farms and ranches face ever increasing odds and closing these offices will mean greater distances to travel for fewer services. As a third generation farmer I know first hand how important FSA offices are to Montana's producers and I will fight in Washington to protect their existence," said Tester. 
   "In Montana, we like to do things face-to-face," said Rehberg, a member of the House Appropriations Committee. "This is why Montana's FSA offices are so important. So, taking a page from our own playbook, both Senators and I decided the best way to get our point across was a sit down meeting with Secretary Johanns. Closing these FSA offices is unacceptable and I hope the Secretary now understands that." 
   Since the proposed FSA closures came to light, Baucus, Tester and Rehberg have worked together to put a halt to the proposal. The delegation earlier this month sent a letter to Secretary Johanns urging the USDA to not approve the proposal. The delegation also urged Secretary Johanns to consult with Montana producers before making any decisions about FSA office closures - since producers are the ones with "their boots on the ground" and know what's best for Montana. 
   Baucus, Tester and Rehberg said they are committed to working together to ensure that Montana's agriculture industry and producers don't get the short end of the stick.
 
 