SENS. BAUCUS, TESTER, REP. REHBERG MEET WITH BUREAU OF RECLAMATION COMMISSIONER BOB JOHNSON
  On Monday, Feb. 12, the state's congressional delegation met with Bureau of Reclamation Commissioner Bob Johnson to discuss funding for Montana's rural water projects including Rocky Boy's/North Central Montana Rural Water System, Fort Peck/Dry Prairie Rural Water System, and the St. Mary Diversion and Conveyance Works Project. 
   Last month, the House passed legislation to complete the nine remaining spending bills for 2007. $21 million in funding for these Montana water projects was not included. The Senate begins consideration of similar legislation this week.  
   During the meeting, the Montana Delegation discussed construction funding for the Fort Peck/Dry Prairie Rural Water System and Rocky Boy's North Central Montana Rural Water System. Both of these projects have already been authorized. Additionally, they discussed funding and authorization for a feasibility study on rehabilitation of the St. Mary's Diversion and Conveyance Works. 
   Specifically, the delegation urged BOR to use any available 2007 funds for these projects. They also expressed disappointment that these projects weren't included in the President's 2008 budget proposal. During the meeting, Commissioner Johnson explained that the needs for projects way outnumbered the funds available but assured the delegation he would keep Montana's projects in mind as funding became available. 
   "All Montanans should have access to safe and reliable water. It's a basic need that should be met," Baucus said. "It's not right that some Montana communities still struggle for to meet this need. Jon, Denny and I today urged BOR Commission Johnson to provide the funding needed so all Montana communities and businesses have safe, reliable water and we're committed to working together." 
   "The Bureau of Reclamation heard from us loud and clear today, and we'll make certain they don't ignore our concerns. We consider Montana's water projects a national priority," Senator Tester said. "Max and Denny and I are tired of talking about these critical projects. It's time for action, not just studies." 
   "Every Montanan deserves good, clean drinking water," said Rehberg, a member of the House Appropriations Committee. "Last year, as a member of the Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee, I worked hard to secure funding for these projects. I'll continue to do so in the future. Today's meeting was an important step in providing BOR a view of what these projects mean to Montana and asking for answers in terms of why these funds have again been left out of the President's Budget." 
   The North Central Montana Regional Water Authority (NCMRWA) is comprised of thirteen public entities, all of which have signed an Interlocal Agreement creating the Authority. This rural water project was jointly developed with the Chippewa Cree Tribe of the Rocky Boy's Indian Reservation and was authorized in December 2002. The project area covers approximately 10,700 square miles in north central Montana. 
   The Fort Peck/Dry Prairie Rural Water System will serve Reservation populations in or around the communities of Wolf Point, Poplar, Brockton, Ft. Kipp, Oswego, and Frazer. Communities served by the water project that aren't on the Reservation include Glasgow, Scobey, Plentywood, and Culbertson. 
   The St. Mary's Diversion and Conveyance Facilities are over 100 years old and are in serious need of repair. These facilities provide water to both the local agricultural community for irrigation and to several local municipal water systems.
 
 