SENS. BAUCUS, TESTER BRING BIG BUCKS TO BITTERROOT
  Funding for several Bitterroot Valley projects is just over the horizon, Montana Senators Max Baucus and Jon Tester announced today. 
   The Senate Appropriations Committee today approved $1.85 million for three projects in the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development (THUD) appropriations bill.
   The projects include:
   * $400,000 for the Daly Mansion Restoration, Hamilton: The funds will be used to help the historical preservation and cultural education associated with the Daly Mansion, and the Daly legacy.
   * $1 million for the Bridge Over Broadway, Missoula: The funds would provide a pedestrian bridge for access to the Rattlesnake Recreation area near East Broadway Avenue.
   * $450,000 for the Missoula Food Bank, Inc. Transportation System, Missoula: The funds will be used to purchase eight refrigerated trucks to help transport food to food shelters across the state. 
   "We are very excited to keep the work going with the house. The $400,000 will help complete the inside of the mansion.," said Kim Morris, executive director of Daly Mansion Preservation Trust "We can't thank Senator Baucus and Senator Tester enough for their work to secure funding for Phase III of the restoration. " 
   "Friends of Missoula Parks is extremely grateful for Senators Baucus' and Tester's support of the Bridge Over Broadway project. This project is a critical link in the Missoula trail system," said Dr Phil Gardner, with the Bridges Over Broadway project. "The Bridge Over Broadway project will enhance opportunities for hikers, runners, walkers, bikers and birdwatchers. It will greatly improve safety of everyone especially children, elderly, disabled citizens, as well as commuters and students."
   "The Bitterroot is one of the fasting growing areas of our great state, and Jon and I know how important these projects are," Baucus said. "And these dollars will not only preserve our past, they will build a bright future." 
   "I'm excited to see the results of these well-deserved dollars," Tester said. "Working with Max, we were able to give folks the resources they need to complete these worthy projects."
   The THUD appropriations bill must now go before the full Senate for consideration.
 
 