SENS. BAUCUS, TESTER SECURE DOLLARS FOR KALISPELL-AREA PROJECTS
  The long-awaited Kalispell bypass project is one step closer to getting completed and the Confederated Salish Kootenai Tribe Transportation Center is one step closer to getting underway as a key Senate panel today approved Senators Max Baucus' and Jon Tester's request for federal dollars. 
   The Senate Appropriation Committee today set aside $6 million for the bypass project and $350,000 for the CSKT transportation project in the fiscal year 2008 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development spending bill. The bill will now go before the full Senate for its consideration. Baucus and Tester requested the dollars.
   After years of planning and design work, officials have started constructing the new bypass, which will provide a safe new route around Kalispell for large trucks, relieve congestion, and create jobs in one of Montana's fastest growing communities.
   The project will reroute U.S. Highway 93 around Kalispell and connect to U.S. Highway 2. The eight-mile project will expand Highway 93 to four lanes and provide numerous interchanges and on/off ramps.
   Baucus and Tester said U.S. 93 is the highest volume, non-Interstate highway in Montana.
   "This is excellent news for Kalispell," said Pam Kennedy, Mayor of Kalispell. "We are strong growth in the city and in Flathead County. It's critically important that we plan accordingly and develop a safer, less congested route for travelers, commerce, and families. Max and Jon have really stepped up for us."
   Baucus secured $30 million for the bypass project as an author of the 2005 highway construction bill.
   "This bypass is about creating jobs, boosting commerce, relieving congestion, and providing a safe way around Kalispell," said Baucus, Montana's highest-ranking elected official. "We just took another giant step forward to getting it finished up. I'm proud to work with Jon to secure these dollars."
   "Max has been committed to the Kalispell bypass from day one," Tester said. "Now I'm pleased to join him in the effort to secure federal funds. Kalispell is growing rapidly and this bypass will do big things for jobs, the economy in the Flathead, and it'll make traveling in that area much more safe for families."
   The CSKT is working to create a more efficient transportation system to better serve members on the reservation. The funds secured by Baucus and Tester will go towards the first phase of the CSKT Transportation plan - purchasing seven vehicles, operating costs, and the construction of a transfer center/bus maintenance facility.
   "Efficient and reliable transportation is key to a successful community," Baucus said. "This new transportation program will provide a real boost to the CSKT - it will create more good-paying jobs and boost the economy. Jon and I were proud to secure this funding."
   "Transportation plays an important role in our everyday lives - we need it to get to work and to visit family and friends," Tester said. "Max and I worked to secure these dollars which will provide a real shot in the arm to the CSKT community."
 
 