SENS. BAUCUS, TESTER ANNOUNCE MORE THAN $20M FOR MONTANA PROJECTS
  From new roads, to new ball fields, to new houses, Montana is slated to receive $20.85 million in the fiscal year 2008 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development appropriations bill, Montana Senators Max Baucus and Jon Tester announced today.
   The full Senate passed the bill today. Since the House has already passed its version of the bill, a joint House and Senate committee will now work out differences between the two bills. 
   "Whether it is driving down a good road, catching a good game, or experiencing Montana's rich history, these dollars will provide a shot in the arm to Montana's economy and create more good-paying jobs," Baucus said. "Jon and I fought hard for these dollars because these projects are vital to the folks who call Big Sky Country home."
   "From Yellowstone County to Flathead County, these projects will benefit all Montanans, and all the visitors to our great state," Tester said. "Working together with Max, we were able to bring these dollars home to give a boost to folks across the state."
   The fiscal year 2008 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development appropriations bill included the following Montana projects:
   $7 million for Shiloh Road, Billings: The funds will be used to rebuild 4.5 miles of the West End road from Poly Drive to Canyon Creek Bridge, south of Zoo Drive.
   $500,000 for Cobb field, Billings: The funds help pay for a 3,500-seat multi-use stadium to replace the aging Cobb Field.
   $6 million for Kalispell Bypass, Kalispell: The funds will help reroute U.S. Highway 93 around Kalispell and connect to U.S. Highway 2. The eight-mile project will expand Highway 93 to four lanes and provide numerous interchanges and on/off ramps.
   $1 million for homeWORD, Missoula: The funds will help to develop affordable, rental housing for citizens of Missoula.
   $400,000 for the Daly Mansion Restoration, Hamilton: The funds will be used to help the historical preservation and cultural education associated with the Daly Mansion, and the Daly legacy.
   $1 million for the Bridge Over Broadway, Missoula: The funds would provide a pedestrian bridge for access to the Rattlesnake Recreation area new East Broadway Avenue.
   $650,000 for ExplorationWorks in Helena: The funds will be used to help complete the new Science museum.
   $400,000 for the Housing First Project, Billings: The funds will be used to help build a multi-family apartment complex for homeless families.
   $1.5 million for the I-15 Custer Avenue Interchange, Helena: The funds will be used to help construct the I-15 Custer Avenue Interchange which will help alleviate traffic, and provide greater access for emergency vehicles.
   $1 million for the Great Falls Transit District Bus and Bus Facilities, Great Falls: The funds will be used to replace an aging fleet of buses with newer, more fuel efficient buses.
   $600,000 for the Chippewa Cree Transportation and Rehabilitation of Malmstrom Air Force Base Units, Rocky Boy and Great Falls: The funds will be used to help transport, and rehabilitate housing units from Malmstrom Air Force base to Rocky Boy.
   $450,000 for the Missoula Food Bank, Inc. Transportation System, Missoula: The funds will be used to purchase eight refrigerated trucks to help transport food to food shelters across the state.
   $350,000 for the Confederated Salish and Kootenai Tribes Reservation Transportation System, Pablo: The funds will be used to purchase new vehicles and build a bus maintenance facility to increase public transportation on the Flathead Reservation
 
 