SENS. BAUCUS, TESTER SECURE NEARLY $8 MILLION FOR NORTH-CENTRAL MONTANA
  Malmstrom Air Force Base, the Montana National Guard and the Blackfeet Nation are at the receiving end of the latest spending bill from Congress, Senators Max Baucus and Jon Tester announced today. 
   The Defense Appropriations Bill passed a key Senate Committee today. The measure sets aside nearly $8 million for projects in north-central Montana and $30 million for various projects statewide. Baucus and Tester requested funding for the projects earlier this year.
   The funds are in addition to $14.6 million in Montana military construction projects that passed the Senate earlier this month.
   The spending bill that came out of the Senate Appropriations Committee today sets aside:
   * $800,000 for Malmstrom Air Force Base for cyber security attack and defense exercises. The money will fund two community exercises in Great Falls and one statewide exercise to examine and enhance the ability to cooperatively address a cyber attack on military installations. The exercise will focus on community-military interaction to ensure that communication is good.
   * $2 million for the Blackfeet Nation Tribal Business in Browning to develop lightweight, low-cost materials for missile defense equipment. The Blackfeet Nation, in partnership with Radiance Technologies, Inc., will manufacture much-needed materials to replace traditional heavy, logistically constraining equipment.
   $5 million for Cubic Corporation in Great Falls to purchase an Initial-Homestation Instrumentation Training System (I-HITS). The I-HITS system provides both training and live-combat technology to help American troops better identify friendly forces on the battlefield. Both Malmstrom Air Force Base and the Montana National Guard will use system.
   "We are pleased to hear that Senator Baucus and Senator Tester have added funding in the FY2008 Senate Defense Appropriations for the Initial-Homestation Instrumentation Training System (I-HITS) to enhance our Dual-Use Incident Management and Combat Training Complex at Fort Harrison," said Major General Randy Mosley, Adjutant General of the Montana National Guard. "This additional capability will continue to enhance our vision as becoming the premier training site for Department of Defense and Homeland Security."
   "These dollars are going to provide good paying jobs in Great Falls and Browning while strengthening our national security," Baucus said. "Jon and I make good projects like these a priority and we'll fight in Washington for them every step of the way."
   "This is a serious investment in the economic future of north-central Montana and I couldn't be happier that these worthy projects will get the funding they deserve," Tester said. "Any project that creates jobs and helps secure our country is a priority for me, and you can bet that there will be no bigger advocates for these projects than Max and I."
   The projects now go before the entire Senate for consideration.
 
 