UPDATE FROM WASHINGTON: WE DESERVE HONEST, OPEN DEBATE ABOUT FUTURE OF IRAQ
  As the war in Iraq drags on, costing Americans blood and billions of dollars, we here in Washington are stuck at an impasse. Last week, some of my colleagues decided against debating the plan to escalate war, leaving us to debate about whether or not to have a debate. That's not what Montanans sent me to Washington to do.  
   Montanans deserve better. Our troops deserve better. They deserve a thoughtful discussion about the direction our nation should go with Iraq. 
   We cannot afford to escalate the war in Iraq. President Bush believes sending nearly 50,000 more troops into Iraq will lead to victory. I join most Americans in asking the President for his definition of victory. Was it the capture of Saddam Hussein? We did that. Was it democratic elections in Iraq? We saw that too. 
   It's time for people to stand up and demand a plan for Iraq that supports America's interests and our troops. Because of partisanship, we missed our opportunity to do that in the Senate last week. We will and we must have another opportunity. 
   During a speech on the Senate Floor last week, I told my colleagues about the thousands of Montanans who have lost faith in the way the Bush Administration is conducting the war in Iraq. I reminded my colleagues that for too long Congress refused to ask the tough questions, refused to debate the merits of the war, and refused to hold President Bush accountable for the deteriorating situation in Iraq. 
   I also reminded my colleagues of former Secretary of State Colin Powell's guidelines for efficient military action. General Powell outlined the so-called "Powell Doctrine" when he served as chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff during the first Gulf War. I criticized the Bush Administration for violating every principle of the Powell Doctrine in the political planning of the current war. 
   The Powell Doctrine guidelines begin by stating that U.S. military action should be used only if there is a clear risk to national security. Second, it says the U.S. military should use overwhelming force to accomplish its mission. Third, U.S. military action should have strong support by the general public. And fourth, the U.S. military must have a clear exit strategy. None of these guidelines have been followed. Abandoning these four principles has left the United States lost in Iraq and alone in the world. 
   That's why I'm committed to doing all I can to fight for what's best for our troops and our country. 
   It's time to ask the tough questions. We need to demand answers. And we need to bring our troops home as safely and quickly as we possibly can. 
   Talk to you soon,.
 
 