SENS. BAUCUS, TESTER WORK TO ENSURE VETERANS HAVE ACCESS TO HEALTH CARE IN EASTERN MONTANA
  Montana's Sens. Max Baucus and Jon Tester today called for more information on the proposal to move the Sidney Veterans Affairs services to Glendive and said that veterans should not have to cross additional hurdles to get the health care they need and deserve.  
   At the end of last week, the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs called for the veterans' health clinic in Sidney to move to Glendive. Baucus and Tester want to ensure that veterans in Eastern Montana aren't negatively impacted by the proposed move. The senators today urged Department of Veterans Affairs Secretary Jim Nicholson to conduct a more thorough review before proceeding with the move of the Sidney VA clinic to Glendive. 
   "Distance to VA facilities remains one of the biggest barriers to care for veterans in Montana. Most of the veterans living in north-eastern Montana already face a round trip of hundreds of miles to the nearest health care facility," Baucus and Tester wrote to Secy. Nicholson today. "Moving the health clinic from Sidney to Glendive will mean that Montana's veterans will have to drive farther to access care. We need to know the real impact this will have on our veterans." 
   The senators want to ensure that veterans in Sidney and Eastern Montana will not lose health care benefits due to the move. 
   "Veterans in rural areas have earned the same benefits and rights as their urban counterparts," the senators wrote. "Congress has worked to provide the VA with the resources it needs to address this vital issue by establishing an Office of Rural Health, and with increased resources for veterans' health care. Therefore, we will not accept any proposals that result in a decrease in available services for Montana's veterans." 
   Baucus and Tester are committed to working together with U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs to make sure that Montana veterans have access to quality, affordable health care and that they don't receive the short-end-of-the-stick.
 
 