SEN. TESTER FIGHTS TO KEEP CABINS AT FRESNO, NELSON RESERVOIRS
  Senator Jon Tester is turning up the heat on the Bureau of Reclamation to allow Montanans to keep their cabins on the Fresno and Nelson Reservoirs in north-central Montana.
   Last summer the Bureau of Reclamation proposed changing its rules that would allow the agency to discontinue private cabin leases along the reservoirs. Today, Tester released a letter he recently sent to Bureau of Reclamation Commissioner Robert Johnson, explaining why he opposes the change. 
   "Investments have been made under great expense with the understanding that their leases would continue into the future," Tester wrote, noting that many cabin owners have invested in septic systems, landscaping and remodeling - often at the request of the Bureau of Reclamation. "Any changes in Bureau of Reclamation procedure that would discontinue leasing on these reservoirs in the future are unacceptable."
   Tester added that the recreational, economic and social benefits of the cabin leases are "markedly beneficial." Many of the cabins have been in the areas - near Havre and Malta - for decades.
   Tester also told Johnson that he has heard different interpretations of the proposed rule change, and he demanded more information.
   "I request immediate clarification of the intention of the proposal," Tester wrote. "If the Bureau does not withdraw or substantially change the proposed rules following this comment period, I will seek legislative options to block this proposal from taking effect."
   Montana's other U.S. senator, Max Baucus, wrote a similar letter to Commissioner Johnson last week.
   "Montanans have been vacationing and leasing these sites for decades - it's a time honored tradition to take the family to the lake," Baucus said. "It's not right that the BOR comes along and tries to pull the rug out from these families. I'm committed to working together with Jon Tester to keep this important part of our outdoor heritage around for years to come."
   Mr. Robert Johnson
  Commissioner
  Bureau of Reclamation
  1849 C Street NW
  Washington, DC 20240-0001
   Re: Nelson and Fresno Reservoir cabins - Proposed Federal Register Changes
   Dear Mr. Johnson:
   In recent weeks my office has been contacted by cabin owners on Nelson and Fresno Reservoirs in Montana regarding proposed changes to the Federal Register (Subparts H 429.31 and 429.32) that would result in the discontinuation of private cabin leases in these areas. Cabin owners on these reservoirs have invested in cabin and land improvements including septic systems, landscaping and cabin remodeling often at the request of the Bureau of Reclamation. Many of these cabin owners have leased these sites for decades. Investments have been made under great expense with the understanding that their leases would continue into the future. The discontinuation of leases and the removal of cabins and related infrastructure would require additional expenses to the cabin owners. I understand that the Bureau is currently seeking comment on these changes, and I respectfully submit my following views:
   I oppose the proposed rule change because it would negatively impact cabin owners on Nelson and Fresno reservoirs. Any changes in Bureau of Reclamation procedure that would discontinue leasing on these reservoirs in the future are unacceptable. 
  The recreational, economic and social benefits of these leases are markedly beneficial to the region. In lieu of eliminating the leases, the Bureau should investigate conveyance of cabin sites to private parties. 
   Furthermore, there seems to be different interpretations of the proposed rule changes and I request immediate clarification of the intention of the proposal. If the Bureau does not withdraw or substantially change the proposed rules following this comment period, I will seek legislative options to block this proposal from taking effect.
   Sincerely,
   Senator Jon Tester.
 
 