SEN. TESTER BEGINS IN WASHINGTON WITH ETHICS REFORM
  New Year's greetings from Sharla and me! It has been a busy month already for us with the addition of a new grandson and the start of the 110th Congress.  
   During my campaign, I heard from voters in every corner of Montana that it was time for genuine ethics reform and transparency in government. It's great news for Montana and the country that the first piece of business on the Senate calendar is the ethics package with key provisions from the Feingold, Obama, Lieberman, and Tester Ethics Reform Bill. 
   Ethics reform will pave the way for a successful year. Before Congress can move on to other issues, we need to revamp the system to prove to Americans that their government works for them. 
   Government shouldn't be about special favors to special interests and those with the most money. Ethics reform will change that. That is why I have already co-sponsored pieces of legislation that strengthen Washington's Ethics rules. The people of Montana and the nation wanted change and that is why Ethics reform served as the pace car for the legislative agenda of this Congress. 
   Montanans joined the millions of Americans who spoke with a clear voice last November; they wanted Washington cleaned up. In my first week here, I was encouraged to see that message seems to have been received by both parties and I expect to see real Ethics reform sooner rather than later. 
   In addition to the passage of real Ethics reform, my office and anyone who works in it will adhere to a strict Ethics policy: 
   Transparency. I will make my schedule available to the public at the end of every business day (you can view it at tester.senate.gov/schedule.cfm) 
   No Free Lunch. My staff and I will refuse all gifts, meals and travel from lobbyists. 
   No Revolving Door. If you leave my staff to become a lobbyist, that's fine, just don't expect to work here in the future. 
   Not unlike my farm in Big Sandy, there's much to be done in Washington and not a lot of time in which to do it. 
   The Senate has adopted a five-day work week; that's good news for Montana. Several years of three-day weeks left serious work undone - hurting Montanans and Americans. Most Montanans have to work more than five days in a week, and their government should too. 
   It's a great honor to serve you in Washington and I am aware every day of the awesome responsibility with which you have entrusted me. You sent me here to roll up my sleeves and go to work. That's what I intend to do, every day. 
   Hope to see you soon, Jon.
 
 