SENS. BAUCUS, TESTER GRAB FEDERAL DOLLARS FOR MONTANA METH PROJECT
  In a first-ever move, Congress will provide funds to help keep the Montana Meth Project's hard-hitting advertising campaign on the airwaves. 
   Montana Senators Max Baucus and Jon Tester today secured $500,000 for the Meth Project as part of the fiscal year 2008 Commerce, Justice, Science Appropriations bill, which today passed the Senate.  
   Until recently, the Montana Meth Project has been financed solely using private donations. Montana Meth Project Chairman Mike Gulledge hailed the news, saying the dollars show a federal commitment to fighting methamphetamines. 
   "Our meth problem is not going to go away over night, but we are already seeing solid results due to the Montana Meth Project's innovative campaigns," Gulledge said. "These dollars show a federal commitment to keeping meth out of our schools and communities. We take our hats off to Max and Jon for securing these needed dollars." 
   Tom Siebel launched the Meth Project in Montana in Sept 2005. All told he has contributed more than $15 million to the project, but recently challenged state and federal officials to help fund the program. Siebel has also announced a $5-million "challenge grant" that will match, dollar for dollar, contributions from private entities. He praised the Montana senators for working to secure federal funds. 
   Peg Shea, the project's executive director, said the graphic campaign has been highly successful in Montana, noting the federal funding is critical to keeping the program going. 
   "This secures our future. It's critical," Shea said. "These dollars will help us continue the program into next year. We have taken meth out of the closet. Now it's time to keep up the fight and that takes a collaborative approach." 
   "The Meth Project has helped play an important role in fighting meth," said Baucus, Montana's senior U.S. Senator. "I'm glad to that the federal government to embrace this new, innovative strategy to fight meth. These first-time dollars will serve as a down payment. We're going to make Uncle Sam a long-term partner in our fight against meth." 
   Tester applauded the project and said a private-state-federal partnership "is the only real solution."
   "The best way to combat meth is for the Montana Meth Project, the great state of Montana and the federal government to pool their resources and work together," Tester said. "That's why Max and I are stepping up to secure these dollars. It's time for us to stamp out meth once and for all." 
   The Montana Legislature recently approved spending $1 million in state money on the Meth Project. Those dollars were requested at the behest of Montana Attorney General Mike McGrath. 
   "The Montana Meth Project's highly visible prevention campaign has made a difference," said McGrath. "I'm grateful to Sens. Baucus and Tester for finding funds to help keep the program working in Montana."
   Gulledge said since September 2005, the Montana Meth Project has produced more than 13 different television spots, about 10 different newspaper ads, and more than 15 different radio spots, detailing, in hard-hitting realistic terms, the dangers of meth use. The Meth Project also sponsored the Paint the State art contest featuring more than 600 submissions and also has an intensive community outreach effort. The campaign has won national awards and high praise from drug treatment facilities and law enforcement agencies across the country. 
   The House has already passed its version of the bill. The two bills will now go before a joint House-Senate committee to work out differences between the two bills, the senators said.
 
 