SENS. BAUCUS, TESTER HAIL $1 MILLION FOR GREAT FALLS AREA PROJECTS
  Montana Senators Max Baucus and Jon Tester today announced $1 million for Great Falls area law enforcement projects as part of the fiscal year 2008 Commerce, Justice, Science Appropriations Bill, which passed the Senate today. 
   The House has already passed a similar bill and now the two will go to a joint House, Senate committee to work out differences between the two bills.
   "It's simple. We need to make sure that the bad guys who are corrupting our kids and devastating our communities go behind bars where they belong," Baucus said. "Making sure our law enforcement men and women have the resources to make that happen is one of my top priorities," Baucus said. "I was proud to work together with Jon to secure these funds - they'll really help to protect the people of Great Falls and the surrounding area."
   "Max and I are committed to stamping out meth once and for all," Tester said. "This funding is critical to helping our law enforcement officials and helping young adults get the treatment and attention they need and deserve."
   The appropriations funding will be used for the following Great Falls area projects:
   * $500,000: Chippewa Cree Juvenile Detention Center Renovation Project: The renovation of the juvenile detention center on the reservation will allow the Tribe to provide much needed services to juveniles, rather than sending them to high-cost off-reservation facilities.
   * $500,000: Great Falls Emergency Services Advanced Regional Training Center: To purchase equipment for law enforcement classroom and offices and upgrades for a large fire training classroom and offices, and training needs.
   Chippewa Cree Tribe Chairman John "Chance" Houle, Vice-Chairman Brian K. Eagleman and Councilman Jonathan Windyboy were thrilled with today's news.
   The Tribal Chairman, John Chance Houle said, "The Tribe is very appreciative of the leadership of both Senator Baucus and Senator Tester in assisting us with funding our Youth Detention Facility. The funding will help with our vision for developing our own juvenile detention facility on the reservation." 
   The Vice-Chairman for the Chippewa Cree Tribe, Brian K. Eagleman said, "We thank our congressional delegation for looking after our needs in Indian Country, funding for detention facilities is nearly impossible to access under the BIA budget."
   Jonathan Windy Boy, Democratic Representative to House District 92 and Tribal Business Committee member said, "I want to personally thank both Max and Jon for doing what they said they would do for Indian Country. We have waited for several years now for our juvenile detention funding and our Democratic Senators got the job done. This is a perfect example of how we can work together with our congressional delegation to make a difference at the reservation level. We will use the funding to help rehabilitate our juveniles so they can be future leaders for our tribe."
   Corky Grove, Chief of Police for the City of Great Falls, was also pleased with today's news.
   "On behalf of the city of Great Falls, I thank Senators Max Baucus and Jon Tester for helping to secure this funding," said Chief Grove. "These dollars will serve as a down payment in helping to make our emergency services and training center even better."
 
 