SENS. BAUCUS, TESTER LOCK UP FEDERAL FUNDS FOR FLATHEAD-AREA PROJECTS
  Several Flathead-area communities are going to be a lot safer thanks to federal funds secured by Montana's Senators Max Baucus and Jon Tester. 
   Today the Senate Commerce, Justice, and Science Appropriations bill passed the Senate. Included in the bill was $700,000 for three Flathead-area projects, including:
   * $250,000 for Eureka Justice Center, Eureka: Eureka is developing a new justice center in order to promote inner agency cooperation, and provide a safe work environment. The funds will be for upgrades, equipment purchase, and training.
   * $200,000 for the Whitefish police department, Whitefish: The Whitefish police department will use the funds to upgrade radio communications, purchase new video surveillance equipment, and new crime scene investigation tools. The funds will also be used to improve officers work stations.
   * $250,000 for the Flathead 911 Computer Aided Dispatch (CAD) System, Kalispell: This system will allow interoperable communication among numerous public safety agencies during an emergency response. The Dispatch system will improve response time while Mobile Data capabilities will provide public safety responders a link to the 911 Emergency Communications Center CAD system, giving them access to location mapping and situation information via in-car computers. 
  "Whitefish is growing rapidly and keeping up with the needs of our emergency service responders is always a challenge. These new funds will be instrumental in meeting the challenge and to continue to provide the public the services they need and deserve," said Gary Marks, Whitefish City Manager. "Max and Jon know how important these funds are to our community, and we want to thank them for all their hard work."
   "In an emergency, being able to respond quickly can mean the difference between life and death, and these dollars are literally live savers," said Debbie Pierson, the Flathead County Grant Support agent. "On behalf of the entire Flathead, I want to offer a big thank you to Max and Jon for helping prevent emergencies from becoming tragedies."
   "Bad guys belong behind bars and these funds will help law enforcement officials get them and keep them there," Baucus said. "Jon and I will continue to work together to help keep communities across Big Sky Country safe."
   "Like big cities, small towns have problems, but often times not the resources to deal with them," Tester said. "That's why Max and I worked for these dollars, so folks in these communities can be safe at night."
   The House has already passed its version of the bill. The two bills will now go before a joint House-Senate committee to work out differences between the two bills, the senators said.
 
 