SENATE APPROVES $500,000 FOR BILLINGS POLICE DEPARTMENT, MONTANA STATE UNIVERSITY-BILLINGS
  The full Senate today gave a green light to a measure that sets aside a half million dollars for the Billings Department and Montana State University-Billings, Senators Max Baucus and Jon Tester announced today. 
   Senators Max Baucus and Jon Tester requested funding for the projects earlier this year as part of the 2008 Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations Bill. The Senate approved the measure today. 
   The measure includes $200,000 for the Billings Police Department to replace its old crime scene investigation vehicle with a modern, state-of-the art vehicle to process crime scenes and to respond to incidents. The Department currently uses a worn-out, 1981 van as its CSI vehicle.
   "It's important for Montana's largest police force to have the tools it needs to keep residents and visitors safe and secure," said Billings Police Chief Rich St. John. "These dollars will go a long way toward upgrading our Department, and although early in the process, I am thankful for the effort of our delegation and for fighting to bring this money home from Washington."
   Montana State University-Billings will receive $300,000 for its Academic and Workforce Development Program at the Montana Women's Prison. The project will develop the workforce potential of inmates at prison, so that they can enter the job market after serving their sentences. The funding will allow MSU-B to hire a program coordinator and educators.
   "My top priorities include keeping crime off Montana streets and creating more opportunities for education," Baucus said. "This funding for Billings does just that, and I Jon and I are going to see it through to the end." 
   "It's critically important that Montana's police departments get the funding they need to solve crimes and keep bad guys off the streets," Tester said. "These projects are going to be a huge boost for the Magic City." 
   The Senate will vote on a final appropriations bill after merging it with the House version of the measure. It must then be signed into law by President Bush.
 
 