SENATE APPROVES $1.35 MILLION FOR MISSOULA, MINERAL COUNTY
  The full Senate today voted to send $1.35 million to the City of Missoula, The University of Montana, and Mineral County to significantly improve public safety. 
   Senators Max Baucus and Jon Tester requested the funding earlier this year as part of the 2008 Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations Bill. The Senate approved the measure today. 
   The Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations Bill sets aside:
   * $650,000 to purchase equipment for a new Missoula Police Headquarters. 
   * $100,000 to purchase equipment for the Missoula Emergency Operations Center. 
   * $350,000 to improve The University of Montana's Montana Youth Empowerment Project. 
   * $250,000 to purchase equipment for Mineral County's Search and Rescue. 
  The funding will allow Missoula Police Headquarters to purchase modern equipment and new police vehicles, including motorcycles. It will also provide new equipment and technology for Missoula's Public Safety Operations and Training Center. The facility trains first responders and houses a 9-1-1 communications center.
   The University of Montana's Montana Youth Empowerment Project is designed to help at-risk children. The funding will help develop a school-based behavioral health plan to protect children.
   "We have two leaders in Washington who are fighting to make sure that good projects in Missoula and all over Montana are funded," said Missoula Mayor John Engen. "These dollars are going to make the Garden City safer and will continue to make Missoula one of the greatest places in the West to raise a family."
   Mineral County Search and Rescue will use its funding to improve its communications system. The agency will purchase portable radios and other communications equipment.
   "Better communication, more police vehicles, proactive outreach--it's all going to make the Missoula area a better place to live, work and play," Baucus said. "Securing funding for important projects like this is one of the best parts of the job for Jon and me."
   "When it comes to public safety, Max and I are committed to making sure Montana gets the resources it needs to build safe, strong communities," Tester said. "It's also important we make sure our at-risk kids get the help they need to stay out of trouble. This funding does just that."
   The Senate will vote on a final appropriations bill after merging it with the House version of the measure. It must then be signed into law by President Bush.
 
 