SENS. BAUCUS, TESTER ANNOUNCE OVER $1.2 MILLION FOR HEAD START PROGRAMS
  Children in western Montana will be better prepared for kindergarten thanks to a $1.2 million grant to fund Head Start programs, Montana Sens. Max Baucus and Jon Tester announced today.  
   The grant, awarded from the U.S. Department of Health & Human Services to Child Start in Missoula, will help serve more than 350 children in Missoula and neighboring counties. 
   These funds will boost classroom readiness by preparing tomorrow's students and their families for school. Through Head Start, low-income Montanans and their children will be better prepared for the educational, nutritional and social opportunities that come with school. 
   "We're pleased to receive additional grant funds today to continue Head Start services for 354 young children and their families in Missoula and the surrounding five county area," said Scot Anderson, Director of Child Start, Inc. "As a result, the children will be provided with a variety of comprehensive services, including early childhood development, health, nutrition, disability, parent involvement, and social services. This is important for our community because Head Start helps young children from low income families to be successful in school and in life." 
   "I've had the privilege of working with the folks at Head Start, and I'm pleased they got these much deserved dollars" said Baucus, who recently spent a day reading to students at the Missoula Head Start. "One of my top priorities is to make sure all Montana students have access to a quality education, because a good education is the key to a strong economic future, and these funds will really give our students a good jumpstart in their education." 
   Tester, a former teacher and school board member also praised these funds and the work being done in Missoula and across the state. 
   "Our children are the future of our state and we need to make sure they have every educational opportunity available, whether it's in pre-school, high-school or college and after," Tester said. "Head Start lends a helping hand to those who need it the most and works to keep our promise to the next generation."
 
 