DELEGATION, GOVERNOR UNITE TO PROTECT BIGHORN
  All four of Montana's top elected officials united today in opposition to a plan that will reduce flows and hurt trout numbers on the Bighorn River.  
   Sen. Max Baucus spearheaded a letter signed by Sen. Jon Tester, Rep. Denny Rehberg and Governor Schweitzer to U.S. Bureau of Reclamation Commissioner Robert Johnson. 
   For the first time, the four leaders united in opposition to a flow schedule announced April 9 by BOR officials that they say could eliminate an entire age class of fish in the river below Yellowtail Dam. 
   "We are particularly frustrated by the Bureau's lack of accountability to the public," Baucus, Tester, Rehberg, and Schweitzer wrote, calling the move "a wholesale disregard for traditional federal agency-state channels of communication." 
   The Montana officials are taking issue with the BOR for reversing a decision announced during a public meeting in Billings on March 21 that would have bumped flows in the river to 2,000 cubic feet per second in May, during the critical rainbow trout spawn. 
   On April 9, BOR officials reversed the March decision and said they will keep a flow level of 1,500 cfs until June. 
   The Delegation and Governor said the new flow plan will "result in dry side channels and the absence of an entire age class of wild trout on one of the nation's premier trout streams." 
   The leaders also said the April 9 decision came "as a complete surprise." 
   "In the three weeks since the BOR presentation in March, the only new development has been the unexpected but welcome and significant amount of precipitation in the basin," the Montana leaders wrote. "We expect the courtesy of being alerted to these reversals in management direction." 
   In addition to hurting fish numbers in the river, the Montana leaders said the decision could level a blow to the local economy as well. 
   "In addition to unacceptable impacts to the fishery, this action, if uncorrected, will have a devastating effect on the local economy," the leaders wrote. "The 70,000 to 90,000 angler days on the Bighorn River make it one of the most valuable trout fisheries in the country. These facts make the BOR decision inexplicable." 
   "We do not accept the latest decision by the Bureau of Reclamation on Bighorn River stream flows as final," the letter concluded. "We urge you to work with us in revisiting the Bureau's flow schedule, and finding a better solution.".
 
 