UPDATE FROM WASHINGTON: HOW WORKING TOGETHER GAVE MONTANA VETERANS MUCH-DESERVED FINAL RESTING PLACE
  This past weekend I was honored to make a very important announcement in Missoula: after a long delay, the federal government has finally approved plans for a $3.25 million cemetery in Western Montana for veterans and their spouses.  
   Several vets told me they plan to be buried at the Western Montana State Veterans' Cemetery, beneath the foothills of Blue Mountain. One even said he's saving his wife's ashes to bury there when the cemetery is complete. 
   Providing a peaceful, scenic final resting place is one of the many things we owe to the folks who put their lives on the line for our country. Soon, the tree-lined, 23-acre lot where I stood Saturday will become hallowed ground, and a destination for thousands of Montanans to pay respects to their relatives and friends. 
   For some reason, the U.S. Veterans Administration held up plans for the cemetery. I asked about the logjam when I met recently with Veterans Affairs Secretary Jim Nicholson, and I followed up by sending him a letter expressing my concern about the delay. He responded late last week by sending the Montana Veterans Affairs Division the documents needed to get the project back on track. Bidding for construction should begin in a matter of weeks. 
   But the real credit belongs to the many veterans in and around Missoula who for years have worked so hard on this project. The State of Montana did its part by funding the studies needed to get the project started. 
   This is an example of the government working for people. It takes open communication and listening to get real results for Montanans, more than 107,000 of whom have served in our Armed Forces. 
   We need to make sure our troops get the resources they need to do their jobs safely and effectively in the field. We need to make sure they have access to affordable, quality health care when they come home. And we need to make sure they are laid to rest in peace with the respect and dignity they all deserve. 
   I hope to see you soon, 
   Jon.
 
 