SENS. BAUCUS, TESTER FIGHT OFF THREAT, SECURE MILLIONS FOR MONTANA
  Montana's two U.S. Senators secured nearly $112 million for the Big Sky State after negotiators this weekend threatened to axe all federal funding for state-specific projects. 
   The money is part of a bipartisan overall funding bill working its way through Congress. The measure not only funds important services in the federal government for the 2008 fiscal year, it sets aside $111.8 million for more than 120 individual projects across Montana, Senators Max Baucus and Jon Tester announced today.
   President Bush previously had threatened to veto at-home spending measures put forth by Congress, compelling some lawmakers to suggest stripping all appropriations projects from the overall spending measure. Negotiators came to an agreement on the legislation late Sunday.
   The various projects improve Montana's infrastructure, public safety, health care, crime fighting, drug abuse, economic development, scientific research, education and agriculture.
   The funding for each region of Montana breaks down as follows:
   Billings: $9,709,319 
  Bozeman: $16,459,135 
  Butte: $12,438,800 
  Great Falls: $9,315,172 
  Helena: $4,457,640 
  Kalispell: $6,280,410 
  Missoula: $10,741,438 
  Rural Montana: $42,419,132 
   "Jon and I weren't about to let anyone meddle with projects that bring good-paying jobs and new opportunities to Montana," Baucus said. "We fought hard for these dollars because Montana deserves funding for things like better highways, safer police stations and clean water."
   "Max and I fought for-then rescued-money that will go a long way for all Montanans, especially for folks in rural Montana," Tester said. "We secured this money despite an administration that's out of touch with rural America. I will always fight for good projects that make Montana a great place to do business and the best place in the world to raise a family."
   The Senate will vote on the legislation after it passes the U.S. House, expected late Monday or Tuesday. The overall bill will then go to President Bush, who today said he hopes to sign it into law.
   President Bush has already signed the Department of Defense Appropriations Bill, which sets aside nearly $31 million for military research and development projects across Montana.
   A breakdown of the funding for Montana's projects is attached. Specific information about individual projects is available on request.
 
 