ADEQUATE DWELL TIME SECURES OUR COUNTRY, SUPPORTS OUR TROOPS
 Earlier this year I cosponsored bipartisan, common-sense legislation that will strengthen our military and better secure our nation. I joined with Senator Chuck Hagel, a Republican from Nebraska, and others to support a measure from Virginia Senator Jim Webb that will truly support our troops.
   Sen. Webb's measure requires the military to keep U.S. troops at home for the same length as their deployments to Iraq or Afghanistan, before deploying them again. For example, if you serve in Iraq for one year, you can come home knowing that you'll stay home for at least a year before being sent into combat again. Reserve forces, including National Guard troops, would have three years to serve at home before being redeployed overseas. 
   Time at home between deployments is called 'dwell time,' and requiring a 1:1 deployment-to-dwell ratio just makes sense. It's good for our troops. It's good for families. It's good for military readiness and morale. It's a simple way to make our armed forces stronger.
   Statistics from the Army show that soldiers serving multiple deployments in Iraq are 50% more likely to suffer Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder than soldiers in their first deployment. Congress must make the health and well-being of our men and women overseas a priority. We also must recognize that the longer deployments with less time to rest will lead to more casualties in theater and more cases of PTSD and suicide at home.
   Last July, I was one of 56 senators who voted for Sen. Webb's measure. And I was proud to be a sponsor of it. But often in the Senate, a measure needs 60 votes to move forward with debate. Unfortunately, dozens of my colleagues on the other side of the aisle didn't even want to debate the measure.
   Refusing to allow a good idea go away, Sen. Webb, a decorated Vietnam vet and former Secretary of the U.S. Navy under President Reagan, went back to work making changes and continuing to build support on the other side of the aisle. And now we're going to give the Senate a chance to reconsider. 
   The new version of the dwell-time amendment allows the President to make exceptions in the event of a national security emergency. It also adds a 120-day enactment period, which gives the Pentagon four months to adjust to the new policy once the measure becomes law.
   I want to make it very clear--this measure doesn't withdraw troops from Iraq. It simply makes our military stronger, allowing our troops to carry out their missions the best they can.
   I have repeatedly called on President Bush to make our military stronger, in order to keep our sights focused on the real war on terrorism. With al-Qaeda's leaders still on the loose, and other potential threats like Iran, we can't afford to burn through our resources now. We're asking a lot from troops who have already put in long, hard time overseas.
   This legislation is supported by the Military Officers Association of America, the National Military Families Association, Veterans for America, and others.
   More importantly most of the Iraqi war vets and active-duty folks I've talked to agree we need to take much better care of the troops who defend our country every day. This bill does just that. It's a simple step to preserve the power of the greatest military force in the world.
   This is why I'm going to vote for Sen. Webb's good idea again. We owe it to the thousands of soldiers, Marines, airmen and sailors who are serving in Iraq and Afghanistan, and the thousands upon thousands of their friends and loved ones living at home without them.
 
 