SEN. TESTER FILLS LEADERSHIP POSITIONS IN BILLINGS, GREAT FALLS AND KALISPELL
  Sen. Jon Tester on Thursday, Feb. 1, announced three new members of his staff, all of whom will serve as regional field directors in Montana:  
   Billings Field Director: Rachel Stagg Stagg, a Montana native, is a school board trustee for School District Two in Billings. She is a longtime volunteer in the Billings community who gives time to First Congregational Church and various boards and charity fundraisers. While a member of the Highland Elementary School PTSA, Stagg spearheaded Safe Routes to School, a pilot program to install crosswalks, road signs and lights on Billings school routes. Stagg holds a B.A. in Liberal Arts from the University of Montana. 
   Great Falls Field Director: Cheryl MacArthur MacArthur previously served as executive director of the Montana Cooperative Development Center based in Great Falls. She has more than a decade of experience in working with start-up and existing businesses. MacArthur also served on the board of the Montana Economic Development Association and formerly worked for the Great Falls Development Authority. MacArthur, a 30-year resident of Great Falls, is also a member of Governor Brian Schweitzer's American Indian Business Focus Group. 
   Kalispell Field Director: Virginia Sloan Sloan will work for Tester after a 19-year career with the Montana Department of Labor at the Flathead Workforce Center in Kalispell. As a Business Advocate, Sloan helped various employers with human resource and business expansion issues. She also has served on the Kalispell City/County Planning Board, the Montana Transportation Advisory Committee and the Kalispell Development Corporation. A Montana native, Sloan holds a B.A. in Political Science from the University of Montana. 
   Stagg, MacArthur and Sloan will work closely with constituents and Tester's regional field representatives. As field directors they are responsible for bringing concerns, ideas and requests from constituents directly to Senator Tester. 
   "Rachel, Cheryl and Virginia are all standouts and I'm proud to have them on board," Tester said. "Having a strong, well-respected staff is critical to making sure all Montanans are heard in Washington."
 
 