SEN. TESTER: WHY BUSH'S VETO HURTS MONTANA
  It wasn't much of a surprise that President Bush vowed to veto a bill funding our military and other national priorities even before we finished it. But for me and most other Montanans, it's a big disappointment.  
   I have more than a few solid reasons for supporting the funding bill. But I should start by explaining why the President does not. 
   While our bill primarily funds our military, it also sets aside desperately needed money for veterans, drought-stricken farmers and ranchers things that Montana needs now. President Bush would rather focus solely on war funding right now. But funding the other priorities in our bill cannot wait. 
   The bill contains $96 billion for the Department of Defense. But it also contains $1.8 billion for veterans' health care, mostly for programs that treat wounded vets returning from Iraq and Afghanistan. And the bill provides $3.5 billion in agriculture disaster assistance. 
   Earlier this year, a farmer who runs an operation near Choteau wrote me asking for help. He said making it from one year to the next has become a real challenge maybe even impossible this year. And he's in danger of losing his crop insurance. I hear far too many stories like this. 
   Farmers and ranchers across Montana and throughout this country have suffered long enough. They have dedicated their lives to feeding the world. And it's the very least we can do to provide the assistance they need to keep going. They deserve no less. 
   The President also vetoed the bill because it sends him a clear message: No more free passes to keep mismanaging a war that is costing us far too many American lives (more than 3,300 so far 18 of them Montanans) and far too much money ($2 billion every week). The President believes the bill handcuffs him. 
   Instead, the bill provides a plan to get our troops out of the middle of the civil war and back to fighting terrorism. It sets a goal of getting our troops out by next spring, but it allows our troops to continue to train the Iraqi security forces, to conduct operations against terrorist groups and to protect U.S. assets as long as necessary. That is hardly handcuffing the President. 
   As I have said for the last two years, it is time for a real plan for Iraq. Not a surge. No more unchecked spending. No more bucking the will of the American people. 
   Funding our military and our troops, however, is critically important. While the debate continues about what to do next in Iraq, I promise you we will not leave our troops in the field without the armor, technology and other resources they need. 
   We will give them the tools they need to be safe and effective while they follow orders, and we owe them access to the quality health care they were promised after they come home. 
   Until next time, 
   Jon
 
 