SEN. TESTER ASKS NAVY TO CHRISTEN SUBMARINE USS MONTANA
  Senator Jon Tester says "Montana" ought to be at the top of the list when the U.S. Navy decides to name its newest submarine.
   In a letter sent today to Navy Secretary Donald C. Winter, Tester said Montana is the only state in the nation to have never had a naval vessel named for it-even though there have been six USS New Yorks, four ships named USS Alaska and three USS South Dakotas. 
   "The people of the State of Montana are strong patriots. Their love of country and commitment to the United States Armed Services can be seen in high rates of enlistment," Tester wrote. "And despite being a landlocked state, thousands of Montanans have served in the Navy and Marines during times of conflict."
   Nearly 500 Montanans have died while serving in the U.S. Navy or U.S. Marine Corps since the beginning of World War II, Tester noted.
   The U.S. Navy is currently building a submarine which is scheduled for delivery in April of 2011. Tester asked Winter to christen the submarine USS Montana in honor of the Montanans who have died in service to the Navy and Marine Corps.
   "It is hard to believe that in 118 years of Montana's statehood we have never had a Navy vessel enter service bearing the name of the Big Sky State," Tester wrote. "This measure, while small, would be a meaningful point of pride for the people of my state."
   August 20, 2007
   The Honorable Donald C. Winter
  Secretary of the Navy
  1000 Navy Pentagon
  Washington, D.C. 20350-1000
   Dear Mr. Secretary:
   It has recently been brought to my attention that Montana is the only state in the Nation to have never had a naval vessel named for it. While the Los Angeles-class submarine USS Helena (SSN 725) bears the name of our state's capital city, there has never been a USS Montana in the United States Navy. In contrast, there have been six USS New Yorks, four ships christened USS Alaska, and three USS South Dakotas. 
   Montana twice has come close to having a Navy ship named for it, but these did not work out. The Armored Cruiser 13 was christened the USS Montana in 1906, but had its named changed to the USS Missoula shortly afterwards. The Navy intended to construct a USS Montana during World War II, but that construction was canceled in 1943 before the keel was laid. 
   The people of the State of Montana are strong patriots. Their love of country and commitment to the United States Armed Services can be seen in high rates of enlistment, and in deep community support for the state's active duty military base and for our National Guard. And despite being a landlocked state, thousands of Montanans have served in the Navy and Marines during times of conflict. Indeed, over the course of the 20th Century, nearly 500 Montana residents have been killed in action while serving in the Navy or Marine Corps, including 317 during World War II and 78 during the Vietnam War. 
   It is my understanding that the Navy began construction on a still-unnamed submarine (SSN 780) in December 2004, and that this ship is scheduled for delivery in April, 2011. I believe it would be a fitting tribute to the people of the State of Montana, and to her native sons and daughters who have given their lives in service to the United States Navy and the United States Marine Corps, if SSN 780 were to be christened the USS Montana.
   It is hard to believe that in 118 years of Montana's statehood we have never had a Navy vessel enter service bearing the name of the Big Sky State. I therefore request that SSN 780 bear the name USS Montana. This measure, while small, would be a meaningful point of pride for the people of my state. 
   Thank you for your attention to this request. I look forward to working with you on this issue.
   Sincerely,
   JON TESTER
  United States Senator
 
 