SENS. BAUCUS, TESTER RECOVER MORE THAN $8 MILLION FOR HUNTING, FISHING ACCESS
  Montana's U.S. Senators Max Baucus and Jon Tester have recovered $8.6 million in federal funding to purchase land for hunting, fishing and conservation in Western Montana. 
   The funds were lost when Congress didn't fund specific projects, also known as earmarks, in the fiscal year 2007 spending bill earlier this year, requiring the senators to lobby agency official directly for the funding. The senators worked with agency officials to secure dollars to set aside lands on Selway Creek near  
   Dillon on the Beaverhead-Deerlodge National Forest; for the Swan Valley Forest Legacy Fund on the Flathead National Forest; and for the Blackfoot Community Project/Blackfoot Challenge. 
   "We continue to be awed by the strong support of Senator Baucus and our congressional delegation for our efforts in the Blackfoot Valley," said Jim Stone, Blackfoot Valley rancher and chair of the Blackfoot Challenge. "This funding will help our community-wide partnership take another huge step forward in protecting our rural lands and preserving our rural heritage." 
   "We are an outdoors state," Baucus said. "We hunt, we fish, we hike, we take our kids camping. The outdoors are part of what defines us as Montanans. These dollars will help us to continue to pass on our love for the outdoors to our children and our children's children. I'm very proud that we helped recover these dollars for conservation in Western Montana." 
   "Being outside is a way of life in Montana," Tester said. "I was glad to work with Max to secure these conservation dollars for everyone in Montana that enjoys hunting, fishing and camping in some of the most special country in the world." 
   Baucus and Tester said the following Forest Service land purchasing projects will receive funding this year: 
   * $2.6 million - Beaverhead-Deerlodge National Forest - Selway Creek Phase II: Land Water Conservation Funds will be used by the Trust for Public Land to complete the purchase of this 1,240-acre Selway Creek property. Located within the Beaverhead Deerlodge National Forest approximately 35 miles west of Dillon, this property has extraordinary scenic, recreation, wildlife, and fisheries values and now will be protected forever. 
   * $3 million - Flathead National Forest - Swan Valley Forest Legacy Fund: The Swan River Valley is located in the heart of one of the most ecologically diverse and critically threatened links within Montana's Crown of the Continent the most intact biological ecosystem remaining in the contiguous United States. The funds will be used by the Trust for Public Land to maintain its working forest lands and protect its forest-based livelihoods and rural way of life through the purchase of checkerboard forest lands to consolidate public ownership, improve forest management, protect wildlife habitat for grizzly bears and other species, and ensure public access to hunt, fish and recreate. 
   * $3 million - Blackfoot Community Project/Blackfoot Challenge: These funds will help the Blackfoot Challenge acquire land within the scope of the Blackfoot River Special Recreation Management Area in the upper Blackfoot watershed. This land will contribute to a community-based conservation plan utilizing a mix of public agencies and private entities. Through community tours and educator outreach, the Blackfoot Challenge has served more than 2500 school children, teachers, and ranching families. In response to persistent drought conditions, the Blackfoot Challenge initiated a Water Conservation program that brought together more than 75 irrigators and outfitters to preserve the Blackfoot River that Norman Maclean made famous in his book, A River Runs Through It.
 
 