SENS. BAUCUS, TESTER RECOVER $1 MILLION FOR YELLOWSTONE RIVER
  Montana Senators Max Baucus and Jon Tester have recovered $1.1 million to help protect the Yellowstone River, from its headwaters in Yellowstone National Park to the Montana-South Dakota border. 
   The funds were lost when Congress didn't fund specific projects, also known as earmarks, in the fiscal year 2007 spending bill earlier this year, forcing the Senators to secure the money directly from the Federal Government.  
   The money will be used to fund the ongoing Yellowstone River Cumulative Effects Study, which Baucus established in the 1999 Water Resources Development Act. 
   "On behalf of the entire Council, I would like to sincerely thank Senator Baucus and Senator Tester for making this funding a priority," said Bob Hector, vice chairman of the Yellowstone River Conservation District Council. "This will allow us to complete our LIDAR survey in a timely fashion. We are delighted with their success in obtaining this funding and appreciate their support." 
   The effects study has involved close collaboration with Montana officials, the Corps of Engineers, conservation groups, and the Yellowstone Conservation District Council, which includes representatives from 12 conservation districts along the Yellowstone River. The goal: identifying possible threats to the river and ways to protect it. 
   "The Yellowstone is the longest free-flowing river in the country," Baucus said. "Much of southern and eastern Montana depends on the health of the Yellowstone River. It irrigates fields, provides world-class fishing, sustains the tourism sector, and supplies clean drinking water. It is a source of great pride and economic strength for all Montana. I'm proud we've been able to secure these dollars to help protect the Yellowstone for years to come." 
   The Upper Yellowstone River was named as the second-most endangered river in America by the national conservation group American Rivers in 2006. 
   "Whether it's recreation or irrigation, water is the life-blood of Montana's economy," Tester said. "These funds will help ensure we keep Yellowstone River in good shape and I was proud to work with Max Baucus to make that happen." 
   The Senators said the funds are needed to study ways to protect the river which may include riparian habitat restoration, restoring fish migration channels and endangered species recovery, and natural flood control measures. 
   "This funding represents an extraordinary boost to a collaborative effort to study to the most important ways we can maintain the health of the Yellowstone River from top to bottom," said Jamie Williams, director of The Nature Conservancy in Montana. "Given years of work on this study by a large number of local, state, and federal partners, this funding greatly increases the momentum behind completing this comprehensive study. We thank Senator Baucus and Tester for their championing this important project." 
   Baucus has been working with The Nature Conservancy and others to rebuild the irrigation dam at Intake near Glendive. The new project will guarantee farmers water for their crops and allow warm water fish, including the endangered Pallid Sturgeon, to pass through the dam, opening 238 miles of river habitat for fish spawning. 
   Baucus is chairman of the Senate Environment and Public Works Subcommittee on Transportation and Infrastructure, which has jurisdiction over the Water Resources Development Act. He has included in that bill, which authorizes Corps of Engineers projects across the country, language to fast-track Yellowstone River restoration projects once the study is complete. The WRDA bill is slated to be voted on this year.
 
 