SENS. BAUCUS, TESTER ANNOUNCE NEARLY $6 MILLION FOR SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT
  The Montana-Wyoming Tribal Leaders Council will receive nearly $6 million dollars over the next three years to improve access to substance abuse treatment and recovery support services for American Indians, Senators Max Baucus and Jon Tester announced today. 
  The Billings-based Montana-Wyoming Tribal Leaders Council (MWTLC) will use the money from the to launch the Rocky Mountain Tribal Access to Recovery program. The program, headed by the MWTLC, will fund vouchers for clients in Montana and Wyoming who need substance abuse treatment but can't afford it.
  The Rocky Mountain Tribal Access to Recovery program will also fund other services essential to recovery but not covered by substance abuse treatment programs, including child care, cultural mentoring, spiritual support and clean-and-sober exercise programs.
  The program will prioritize services for people recovering from meth addiction. 
  "These well-deserved dollars are going to do so many good and innovative things in Indian Country," said Baucus. "By providing better access to substance abuse treatment and services, we provide hope and opportunity for all of Montana's American Indian communities."
  "This money will definitely take a bite out of the challenges facing our tribal nations," said Tester, who addressed Indian health care during a field hearing of the Senate Indian Affairs Committee in Crow Agency last month. "Tackling substance abuse problems with programs like this will lead to better opportunities for jobs, education, housing and law enforcement in Indian Country."
  The 3-year, $1,906,240 grant will be awarded to the MWTLC through the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA).
  "We are pleased and honored to receive notification that SAMHSA has awarded the Montana-Wyoming Tribal Leaders Council this major grant. We are working to address the devastating impact of drug abuse, especially methamphetamine abuse on the reservations of Montana and Wyoming," said Gordon Belcourt, Executive Director of the Montana-Wyoming Tribal Leaders Council. "This program will provide important additional resources and tools to combat substance abuse in Indian Country, and we thank the Montana and Wyoming Congressional delegation for their continued support in this battle against abuse."
 
 