SENS. BAUCUS, TESTER HONORED WITH GOLDEN TRIANGLE AWARDS
  Montana Senators Max Baucus and Jon Tester have earned "golden" recognition for serving the Treasure State. 
  Both senators this week received Golden Triangle Awards from the National Farmers Union for their leadership on issues that affect family farmers, ranchers and rural communities.
  The National Farmers Union said it honored Baucus and Tester for leading the way in crafting the 2007 Farm Bill, working to implement mandatory country-of-origin labeling, fighting for emergency disaster assistance, and for promoting the role of agriculture in energy production.
  "I am pleased to recognize Senator Baucus and Senator Tester for their steadfast support of rural America. I was pleased to stand with both Senators yesterday in support of a permanent disaster assistance program and am looking forward to working with them further as the Senate begins work on the 2007 Farm Bill," National Farmers Union President Tom Buis.
  "Agriculture is the backbone of our state's economy, and to be recognized but such a well-respected, effective voice for Montana's producers is a real honor," said Baucus, who serves on the Senate Agriculture Committee. "And I look forward to working with Jon, and the Farmers Union on issues that are important to farmers and ranchers to make sure that agriculture remains strong in our state for generations to come.
  "It's truly an honor to be recognized by a group that advocates so well for family farmers and ranchers across America," said Tester, one of only two farmers in the U.S. Senate. "As a farmer from Montana's 'Golden Triangle' and a longtime member of the Montana Farmers Union I'm proud to standup in Washington for production agriculture. Whether it's permanent disaster relief, country of origin labeling, or renewable energy opportunities, I look forward to working closely with the Farmers Union."
  This year only 57 members of Congress received the Golden Triangle Award. The Golden Triangle is the symbol of the National Farmer's Union, representing education, cooperation and legislation.
 
 