$1 MILLION FOR GREAT FALLS, NORTHERN MONTANA CLEARS SENATE COMMITTEE
  Montana Senators Max Baucus and Jon Tester announced today the Senate Appropriations Committee has approved nearly $1 million dollars for north-central Montana. 
   Baucus and Tester requested funding for these projects earlier this year.
   The Benefis Healthcare Foundation/North Central Montana Healthcare Alliance (NMHA), based in Great Falls, will receive $600,000 to invest in Electronic Medical Records that will benefit numerous counties across northern Montana.
   The funds secured will allow NMHA to research, plan, purchase and implement Health Information Technology at all nine of their member critical access Hospitals including Mountainview Medical Center in White Sulphur Springs, Northern Rockies Medical Center in Cut Bank, Liberty County Hospital in Chester and Pondera Medical Center in Conrad.
   "This terrific news indicates the awareness and commitment both Senators Baucus and Tester have for rural healthcare in Montana," said Jack King, NMHA's executive director. "The information systems that these projects will provide to the small and frontier hospitals in our region will significantly improve the quality, safety and efficiency of our healthcare delivery system. We are extremely grateful to Senators Baucus and Tester for their vision and support."
   Marias Medical Center in Shelby will also receive $200,00 to replace its current CT scanner, which would improve standard medical care, the senators said. The medical center's current scanner is over ten years old.
   "This is great news for health care on the Hi-Line. Marias Medical Center and the Board of Directors would like to thank Senators Baucus and Tester for their efforts. We are fortunate for their leadership and look forward to putting every dollar to work for the residents on the Hi-Line," said Mark Cross, CEO of Marias Medical Center.
   The Ft. Belknap Reservation is also set to receive $200,000 to support educational and career training for at-risk youth. The Fort Belknap Reservation ranks the highest among Montana's seven reservations in suicide rate. The Hays Community Economic Development Corporation will use the funds to expand opportunities for Indian youth.
   "These much-deserved dollars are going to improve the quality of life all along the Hi-Line and throughout rural Montana," Baucus said. "In Washington, just like in Montana, to get a job done you've got to roll-up your sleeves and go to work. That's just what Jon and I did."
   "As a lifelong resident of north-central Montana I couldn't be happier that these funds are coming to the communities in my neck of the woods," Tester said. "Whether it's access to quality health care for all Montanans or renewing hope in Indian Country, Max and I will fight every day to make sure that good projects just like these are funded."
   Today's decision now goes to the full Senate for approval.
 
 