SENATE COMMITTEE APPROVES $350K FOR FLATHEAD ENTREPRENEURS
  The Senate Appropriations Committee today gave a thumbs up to funding for the Flathead Valley Community College, Montana Senators Max Baucus and Jon Tester announced today. 
   The Committee approved $350,000 to create Montana's first Center for Community Entrepreneurship Education at Flathead Valley Community College (FVCC) in Kalispell.
   Establishment of the Center supports the expansion of a current one-year Certificate in Entrepreneurship at FVCC into a multi-disciplinary, two year, transferable degree. 
   "We're very excited about this and certainly appreciate the support from Senators Baucus and Tester," said Dr. Jane Karas, President of FVCC. "Their assistance truly makes a difference in the lives of people living in Northwestern Montana" 
   "Small businesses are the backbone of Montana's economy," said Montana's senior Senator Max Baucus. "These dollars will help fuel the entrepreneurial spirit that continues to create good jobs and an educated workforce."
   "For twenty five years, I ran a custom butcher shop on my farm with two employees; my wife and I," said Senator Jon Tester, a member of the Senate Small Business Committee. "I was proud to work with Max to offer some assistance to folks that have an interest in sticking around Montana and making it a better place to live and work."
   According to the Montana Department of Labor, 80% of businesses in Flathead County have 10 employees or less, further reinforcing the need for training in small business. 
   "This money will provide many opportunities for students and residents of Flathead and Lincoln Counties to acquire the skills to launch their own businesses and careers," said Dr. Karas. "It will allow them to continue to live in this area, make a difference and grow the Montana economy."
   FVCC students have the option of taking the classes online and can choose from courses in business planning, marketing, economics, accounting, software, human relations and communications.
   The funding decision now goes to the full Senate for approval.
 
 