SENS. BAUCUS, TESTER ANNOUNCE $200K FOR DEER LODGE, TWIN BRIDGE
  Montana Senators Max Baucus and Jon Tester today announced $200,000 for Deer Lodge and Twin Bridges as part of the fiscal year 2008 Labor Health and Human Services Appropriations Bill. 
   The senators said that $100,000 for the Powell County Emergency Room and $100,000 for the Northern Rockies Educational Services in Twin Bridges passed the full Senate Appropriations committee. The funding will now be considered by the full Senate.
   "Thank you to Max Baucus and Jon Tester for all their hard work," said Ron Hanson, Powell County Planner. "They know how critical these dollars are to smaller counties, because we have a great need, but not always the resources. They worked hard for these dollars, and we are very grateful."
   "Every Montanan should have access to quality, affordable health care and a good education," Baucus said. "That's why Jon and I worked so hard to secure these funds, because whether you live in a town of 100 people or one million you should have good schools, and good health care."
   "I know firsthand how tough it can be for hospitals and schools in rural communities," Tester said. "Working to secure these funds was important because no Montana should ever wonder if they are going to get good health care, or if their kids will get a good education."
   Deer Lodge, $100,000 Powell County Memorial Hospital: The Powell County Memorial Hospital Emergency Room will use the funds for trauma patient handling equipment as well as diagnostic hardware and software. Due to the heavy traffic flow Interstate 90 and Highway 12, the Powell County Hospital is forced to treat a high volume of trauma victims.
   Twin Bridges, $100,000 The Northern Rockies Educational Service: The Northern Rockies Educational Service will use the funds to help schools across the state implement the Taking Technology to the Classroom project, or TTC. TTC is designed to help Montana K-12 teachers better integrate technology into their classroom. It also helps the teachers obtain an Area of Special Permissive Competency Certification on their teaching certificate from the Montana Office of Public Instruction.
 
 