SENS. BAUCUS, TESTER RECOVER MORE THAN $900,000 FOR NORTHERN CHEYENNE
  Montana Sens. Max Baucus and Jon Tester on Wednesday, March 21, announced that they have recovered more than $900,000 for the Northern Cheyenne Law Enforcement Center in Lame Deer.  
   The funds were lost when Congress didn't fund specific projects, also known as earmarks, in the fiscal year 2007 spending bill earlier this year, forcing the Senators to secure the money directly from the Federal Government. 
   The Northern Cheyenne Law Enforcement Center is a 20-bed facility and provides dispatch, detention, and police work for the reservation, and employs 20 people. 
   "This Center is vital to the folks on the Northern Cheyenne, and I was proud to help secure this money," Baucus said. "These much deserved dollars will help keep this center top notch." 
   "This money and this facility will help build a stronger Northern Cheyenne nation," Tester said. "My congrats to the Tribal Council and all those who've worked so hard to make the Northern Cheyenne community a better place to live. I look forward to seeing the law enforcement center firsthand." 
   "We greatly appreciate Senator Baucus and Senator Tester's support in filling the critical needs for law enforcement. It will allow our peace officers to better serve our people's law and justice needs," said Eugene Little Coyote, president of the Northern Cheyenne. "Currently, our facility is limited; however, this funding will enhance our Law Enforcement Center. We are grateful for Senator Baucus and Senator Tester's assistance in getting the funding for the Facilities Improvement and Repair Project for the Northern Cheyenne Law Enforcement Center." 
   The Northern Cheyenne Law Enforcement Center was one of four law enforcement facilities in the nation to receive funds as a Major Public Safety Facilities Improvement & Repair (FI&R) Project. The four projects will divide $3,844,000, which will be distributed through the Bureau of Indian Affairs.
 
 