SENS. BAUCUS, TESTER ANNOUNCE MORE THAN $250,000 IN GRANTS TO CREATE, SAVE JOBS
  More than 90 Montanans will get to keep their jobs, and more than 80 will get new ones, thanks to several grants announced today by Sens. Max Baucus and Jon Tester. 
   Small businesses and local development organizations in every corner of the Big Sky State will see the results of these grants, the Senators said. The grants were awarded by the United States Department of Agriculture as part of its Rural Development program.
   Baucus and Tester announced the following grants:
   Butte - $25,000: Butte Local Development Corporation will use these funds to assist a small processing facility to expand into an exclusive hog processing market by contracting in professional services for the expansion project. The project will save 11 jobs and create 24 jobs. 
   Missoula - $30,000: Montana Community Development Corporation will use funds to hire consultants to assist 7 small businesses in expanding markets and improve profitability. The project will save 69 jobs and create 29 jobs. 
   Hamilton - $25,000: Ravalli County Economic Development Authority will be able to contract with testing facilities for macrofiber to receive certifications. The fibers are manufactured by a Hamilton area company, and the macrofiber mechanically increases both the strength and toughness of cement. The project will save 6 jobs and create 6 more. 
   Glasgow - $1,000: Secured funds will allow Two Rivers Economic Growth to allow the nonprofit development organization to improve their website and internet communications linking small business owners in Valley County with a larger marketplace. The project will create 5-10 jobs. 
   Livingston - $34,650: Farms for Families will use funds to develop new marketing opportunities for Montana Poultry Growers through the mobile processing of poultry. The project will save 15 jobs. 
   Wolf Point - $51,360: The secured funds will be used for training and facilitating a tribally owned business workforce in e-commerce, marketing products online, and website development by Fort Peck Community College. The project will save 8 jobs and create 8-12 jobs. 
   Bozeman - $95,000: Montana State University will use funds to instruct, train and use materials in solid waste treatment. 
   "Small businesses are the engine that drives our state's economy" Baucus said. "And these dollars will make sure that the engine is running on all cylinders to keep our economy strong and create more good-paying jobs."
   "These funds are going to allow Montana businesses to better promote their quality products and it will open Montana goods and services to new markets," said Tester, a member of the Senate Small Business Committee. "Max and I work in Washington every day to bring more good paying jobs to our state.".
 
 