SEN. TESTER PRAISES PASSAGE OF ENERGY BILL
  Sen. Jon Tester today hailed passage of the 2007 Energy Bill, saying it's a "thoughtful and timely piece of legislation that will bring more jobs, savings, security and cleaner air to Montana." 
   With a vote of 65-27, the Senate passed the Energy Bill late last night after two weeks of debating and modifying the comprehensive measure.
   "Montana isn't just a key player in the future of energy development, it's also a prime beneficiary," said Tester, who played a key role in the bill's passage as a member of the Senate Energy Committee. "This bill does so many good things for Montana, while securing our entire country through energy independence."
   The 2007 Energy Bill emphasizes biofuels and alternative energy development, it limits climate change and promotes energy efficiency. Tester said Montana will see:
   More jobs and opportunities: The 2007 Energy Bill expands the production of biofuels like cellulosic ethanol and biodiesel, which will provide more opportunities for Montana farmers. The bill requires 36 billion gallons of biofuels by the year 2022, it promotes new technology, and it moves producers toward fuels that do not compete with the nation's food supply. 
   Cleaner air and water: The 2007 Energy Bill will fund a national assessment of underground places where developers can store captured carbon dioxide emissions. It also expands experimental carbon capture research, including the Big Sky Carbon Sequestration Partnership based at Montana State University. Tester included an amendment to pay for half the cost of carbon capture and sequestration equipment for coal and petroleum facilities. 
   Efficiency and savings: The 2007 Energy Bill requires automakers to boost the Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE) to 35 miles per gallon by 2020. It also promotes more efficient lighting, heating and cooling. And it punishes gas-gougers. 
   Tougher import standards: The 2007 Energy Bill includes the No Oil Producing and Exporting Cartels Act (NOPEC), which allows the U.S. Justice Department to enforce antitrust laws against OPEC member nations that export oil to America. 
   "This bill wouldn't have been possible without Democrats and Republicans working together to make this country more sustainable and energy independent," Tester said.
   The 2007 Energy Bill is House Resolution 6, also known as the CLEAN Energy Act.
 
 