SENS. BAUCUS, TESTER RECOVER MORE THAN $2.5 MILLION FOR HUNTING, FISHING ACCESS NEAR DILLON
  Montana's U.S. Senators Max Baucus and Jon Tester have recovered more than $2.5 million in federal funding to purchase 1,240 acres for hunting, fishing and conservation near Selway Creek, 35 miles west of Dillon.  
   The funds were lost when Congress didn't fund specific projects, also known as earmarks, in the fiscal year 2007 spending bill earlier this year, requiring the senators to lobby agency official directly for the funding. 
   "We are very grateful to U.S. Senators Baucus and Tester for their strong support of FY 2007 funding from the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF) and Forest Legacy Program (FLP) to protect critical habitat, hunting, fishing and recreational lands for the state of Montana," said Eric Love, The Trust for Public Land's Rocky Mountain Program Director. "Montana will benefit greatly from their efforts. The LWCF funds will complete the protection of over 1,200 acres within the Beaverhead-Deerlodge Forest, including three and a half miles of Selway Creek, a local fly-fishing destination. The FLP funds will protect nearly 800 acres of important forestland resources in North Swan Valley within the Swan River State Forest." 
   "Folks in Beaverhead County, and all us Montanans, are outdoor people," Baucus said. "We hunt, we fish, we hike, we take our kids camping. Places like Selway Creek, and all our outdoors, are what defines us as Montanans. These dollars will help us to pass on our special outdoor heritage for generations to come. I was proud to help secure these dollars for the Selway Creek." 
   "Hunting and fishing are a way of life in Montana," Tester said. "We need more places to recreate, not less, and I'm glad we were able to make Selway Creek one of the special places our kids and grandkids will always enjoy." 
   The dollars are part of the Land Water Conservation Fund, and will be used by the Trust for Public Land to complete the purchase of the 1,240-acre Selway Creek property, which has been offered for sale voluntarily by the landowner. 
   The Senators said that the project is located within the Beaverhead Deerlodge National Forest, and the property has extraordinary scenic, recreation, wildlife, and fisheries values and now will be protected forever.
 
 