SENATE APPROVES MORE THAN $2 MILLION FOR BILLINGS HOSPITALS, MSU-B
  The U.S. Senate has just approved more than $2 million for both Billings hospitals and for Montana State University-Billings to improve health care and job opportunities across Montana.
   Senators Max Baucus and Jon Tester requested money for the projects earlier this year. The Senate agreed to fund them as part of the Labor, Health and Human Services and Education Appropriations Bill. 
   Much of the funding is going to the health care industry to improve medical services across the state:
   St. Vincent Healthcare will receive $711,500 to establish the Montana Children's Hospital Network. The funding will create a pediatric intensive care program to avoid transporting young patients to out-of-state children's hospitals. St. Vincent Healthcare will also receive $332,000 for its Northwest Research Institute/Rocky Mountain Health Network, which provides continuing education to physicians across Montana. It is the only accredited medical education provider in the state.
  Billings Clinic will get $380,000 to create an advanced cancer outpatient center. The hospital will also receive $332,000 to improve its Rural Information System, which provides quality health care to rural Montanans. Another $355,000 has been approved for Billings Clinic's Diabetes Center, to promote health and to fight the high incidence of diabetes across eastern Montana.
   "St. Vincent and hospitals across the state thank Sen. Baucus and Sen. Tester for their support of pediatric patients," said Dave Irion, executive director of the St. Vincent Healthcare Foundation. "We intend to create a hospital network that will take care of our most fragile young people. We believe that we can do more to ensure that pediatric cases stay in Montana."
   "We are grateful that our senators are making this extra effort to advance medicine in Montana," said Jim Duncan, president of the Billings Clinic Foundation. "This funding is critical to a state like Montana where there is limited access to other sources of funding. These dollars will allow us to reach out to the entire Billings Clinic region and help get technology and latest in health care to people fighting cancer, diabetes, and other diseases."
   More funding will go to Montana State University-Billings, which will receive:
   $200,000 to expand its health care education program, focusing on much-needed health care professionals like surgical technicians, drug counselors and home health aides. MSU-B will also receive $200,000 to boost its Skilled Trades Workforce program, and $145,000 for its Montana Energy Workforce Training Center, which trains highly skilled entry level workers.
   "The timing of this couldn't be better. All of these dollars will go into programs that are really directed toward areas in the region and across the state where there are workforce shortages," said MSU-B Chancellor Ron Sexton, who noted shortages in the health care, skilled trade and energy industries. "People are waiting in line and employers are on the other end waiting to hire them."
   "This is good news for Montana. These much-deserved dollars will go a long way for health and care and jobs in Billings and across the state," Baucus said. "It will give Montanans more opportunities and it will bring home more good-paying jobs."
   "This all boils down to giving more Montanans access to some of the best health care out there, whether they live in Billings or far beyond," Tester said. "And it's about making sure Montana is a key player when it comes to putting educated, top-notch folks to work."
   The Senate will vote on a final appropriations bill after merging it with the House version of the measure. It must then be signed into law by President Bush.
 
 