MISSOULA, RAVALLI TO RECEIVE FUNDING BOOST IN SPENDING BILL
  Funds to expand telemedicine, study the effects of methamphetamine, and boost emergency room care are just a few of the things the Missoula area will get under a spending bill that passed the Senate today, said Montana's U.S. Senators Max Baucus and Jon Tester.
   The fiscal year 2008 Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education spending bill includes $1.52 million for the Missoula-Hamilton-Darby areas. 
   "I was pleased to work with Jon to help secure these important projects for the Missoula-Ravalli area," said Baucus, Montana's senior U.S. Senator. "These dollars will help advance research and health care and provide a boost to our communities."
   Senator Jon Tester said, "I'm glad to see our hard work pay off. Working hand-in-hand with Max, I'm committed to making sure Montana gets its fair share of federal funding."
   St. Patrick's Hospital in Missoula will use $380,000 to help establish a new medical record system using telemedicine, so doctors can access patient data quickly.
   "These funds will augment the dollars that Senator Baucus procured for us in 2005 for the Montana Cardiology Telemedicine Network to develop complete electronic medical records for patients in Western Montana," said Joel Langford, St. Patrick Hospital Foundation director. "It's a big deal. We really appreciate the work that Max and Jon put in to get this project in the bill."
   And Missoula's Community Medical center is slated to receive $332,000 to expand its natal care services. "This assistance brings us one step closer to providing a premier facility for women, infants and children," said CMC spokeswoman Karen Sullivan. "Many thanks to Senators Baucus and Tester."
   The Marcus Daly Memorial Hospital in Hamilton will kick start a new emergency room project to ensure contagious patients are separated from other patients.
   The Florence Prever Rosten Foundation in Darby will use $100,000 to expand its Media Arts in Public Schools program, which helps students learn hands on film and media skills. Peter Rosten, MAPS president: "Our young filmmakers are creating national advertising campaigns. I want to thank Senator Baucus and Senator Tester for helping our entrepreneurial dreams come true."
   The University of Montana comes out well in the bill, too, with more than $330,000 for two different research programs: one to help study the effects of methamphetamines and one to help expand the Living and Working Well with a Disability program. "These dollars will help continue UM's top-flight research program," said Dan Dwyer, UM Vice President of Research and Development. "Max and Jon have stepped up to the plate in a big way for us"
   Here's the complete list of Missoula-Ravalli projects in the FY2008 Labors, HHS, Education spending bill:
   !-[if !supportLists]-* !-[endif]-Missoula - St. Patrick Hospital Telemedicine Network, $380,000: This project will establish an electronic medical record system component within the Montana Cardiology Telemedicine Network to integrate patient records throughout the Network and to enable all health care providers to have access to patient information.
   !-[if !supportLists]-* !-[endif]-Missoula - Community Medical Center, $332,000: These funds will be used to help provide new labor, delivery, recovery, and postpartum birthing suites; cesarean delivery rooms; and private rooms for neonatal intensive care patients.
   !-[if !supportLists]-* !-[endif]-Hamilton - Marcus Daly Memorial Hospital, $285,000: These dollars will be used to construct a 20,000 square foot Emergency Room, which will provide a well-equipped decontamination and isolation suite to separate contaminated patients requiring medical attention.
   !-[if !supportLists]-* !-[endif]-Darby - Florence Prever Rosten Foundation (MAPS) program, $100,000: The MAPS program emphasizes the benefit to young people of early experience in the communication technologies. The program enhances the way students learn via experiential learning. It involves young people in addressing community needs and offer an opportunity for learning in the arts, enabling participants to develop and apply new skills over an extended period of time.
   !-[if !supportLists]-* !-[endif]-Missoula - Montana Committee for the Humanities, $100,000: These dollars will help fund a year-long program of conferences, forums, meetings, and other public gatherings. The program will provide grants to Montana civic, community, and educational organizations through MCH.
   !-[if !supportLists]-* !-[endif]-Missoula - The University of Montana Rehabilitation, Research, and Training Center, $150,000: These dollars will help fund a demonstration project under the Living and Working Well with a Disability program under the auspices of Medicare/Medicaid.
   !-[if !supportLists]-* !-[endif]-Missoula - The University of Montana for Methamphetamine Detection and Health Effects Research, $180,000: Montana researchers are ideally positioned to establish an integrated meth detection and health effects research program to serve as a central resource for the nation in addressing Meth abuse. The UM Center for Environmental Health Sciences and the Montana State University Spectrum Lab will establish a collaborative research program focused on meth detection technologies, health effects of second hand exposure, epidemiology, and economic analysis.
 
 