SENS. BAUCUS, TESTER HAIL MORE THAN $530,000 FOR HELENA PROJECTS
  Montana Senators Max Baucus and Jon Tester today praised the Senate for including $534,600 for Helena area education and health projects as part of the fiscal year 2008 Labor Health and Humans Services Appropriations Bill, which passed the Senate late today. 
   "This legislation will help more Montanans have access to quality, affordable health care and will help provide our workforce with the tools and resources to do their jobs effectively," Baucus said. "This funding will provide a real boost to the Queen city."
   "Folks in Montana should be able to get the care when they need and not have to travel long distances to see a doctor for whatever ails them," Tester said. "Max and I were proud to secure this funding for Helena hospitals and Carroll College."
   The appropriations funding will be used for the following Helena area projects:
   !-[if !supportLists]-* !-[endif]-$250,000: Carroll College Civil Engineering: to develop subject areas within the Civil Engineering curriculum including environmental engineering, water resources, transportation systems, and structural engineering. Plans call for expanding and improving the laboratory facilities to allow for increasing enrollment and a more diverse teaching and research experience for students and faculty. In addition it will help with issues around the state related to an aging infrastructure, new environmental mandates, and increasing growth and development.
   !-[if !supportLists]-* !-[endif]-$142,300: Shodair Children's Hospital, Helena: will help provide state-of-the-art technology for genetic counseling and laboratory services associated with cancers. This proposal will enable the hospital to provide cancer genetic services to Montanans quickly and with the newest technology.
   !-[if !supportLists]-* !-[endif]-$142,300: St. Peter's Hospital, Helena: will help with completing the expansion of the hospital. Funding will specifically go for constructing a fourth floor to better serve growing needs.
   "In addition to responding to the national priority to increase the number of U.S. citizens with advanced degrees in science, technology, engineering and mathematics, this initiative will support Montana's need to address issues around the state related to aging infrastructure, new environmental mandates and increasing growth and development," said Dr. Tom Trebon, President of Carroll College. "I'm gratified at the tenacity of Senator Baucus in championing Montana's needs and support from Senator Tester."
   Jack Casey, administrator at Shodair Children's Hospital in Helena, Montana said, "We're thrilled to hear about the funding and grateful to Senators Baucus and Tester. The money will allow us to expand our cancer genetics program to ensure these much-needed services are available here, at home, for Montanans."
   St. Peter's President & CEO John Solheim was also thrilled with the announcement.
   "This is the first time St. Peter's received support for an appropriations request," stated St. Peter's President & CEO John Solheim. "The Hospital greatly appreciates Senator Max Baucus' efforts to help St. Peter's expand its services to meet the growing health care needs of every person in the Helena region."
   The senators said the House has already passed its version of the bill. Now the legislation will now go to a joint House and Senate committee to work out differences between the two bills.
 
 