SEN. TESTER WEIGHS IN ON KEY ISSUES FACING AMERICA, MONTANA
  This week I watched and listened carefully as President Bush delivered his seventh State of the Union Address. My colleagues in Congress and I were all waiting to hear what the President had to say about the future of Iraq, as well as the Administration's plans for critical issues facing Montana and America. 
   This year's State of the Union Address comes at a turning point in American government. In November, Americans voted for a new direction. Now it's important for us all to listen and to put all ideas on the table as we consider the next steps in Iraq, the future of our energy development, our education systems and our health care.  
   IRAQ Like many Montanans, I am deeply troubled by the President's insistence on escalating the war in Iraq. Sending more young people into harm's way with no real plan for victory or safe return is not the answer. Our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan are doing a fantastic job; making enormous sacrifices by following the orders they've been given. But because of this administration, their mission is unclear, far longer and more dangerous than it ever should have been. 
   I will continue to hold the President accountable to make well-informed decisions that will get our troops out of Iraq quickly and safely while working with our allies to build an Iraqi government. I urge President Bush to plot a course out of Iraq that does not rely solely on our men and women in uniform but also incorporates political and diplomatic pressures involving our allies in the region. 
   ENERGY DEVELOPMENT President Bush spoke about the importance of renewable energy as an alternative to oil. For six years, we've heard the President talk about renewable energy with no measurable commitment. I hope that we heard more than just talk. 
   With our state's abundant supply of wind and capacity to produce ethanol and bio-fuels, Montana stands ready to be a key player in expanding America's energy sources and making our country energy independent. I look forward to working with the President and my Senate colleagues to make Montana a pioneer in the frontier of alternative energy. That is critically important to making the world a better place for our children and it is vital to our country's national security. And for Montanans, harnessing our state's energy means good-paying jobs and economic development, especially in rural areas of our state. 
   EDUCATION/ECONOMY I applaud Gov. Schweitzer and the State Legislature for their hard work at the state level in funding schools and moving forward to implement all-day kindergarten. Education goes hand-in-hand with economic development. Good education means good-paying jobs for Montana kids, allowing them to stay in our state, raise their families, and grow our economy. At the federal level, we're working on improving the economy by proposing tax relief for working families and by raising the minimum wage. 
   HEALTH CARE Adequate, accessible and affordable health care is another vital priority for Montana. The current state of our health care system is unacceptable. It's expensive, confusing and inaccessible for many of our state's rural residents. But we can and will clean it up. I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle and weighing all options and ideas to make health care accessible for all Montanans. 
   These are just a few of the issues that I'll be dealing with in the U.S. Senate in the weeks ahead. As always, I'd like to hear from you. Talk to you soon, Jon.
 
 