SEN. TESTER EXPLORES MONTANA'S ECONOMIC POTENTIAL DURING PRESIDENT'S DAY RECESS
  This week I'm back in Washington, D.C., after spending the President's Day recess traveling across Montana listening and taking notes. What a week it was!  
   I spent a great deal of time on my IDEAs (Innovative Development of Energy and Agriculture) tour, a fact-finding mission to explore one of the most exciting and promising opportunities in Montana: energy development. Let me tell you, based on what I saw and heard in Sidney, Plentywood, Glasgow and Butte, Montana will be the leader in the future of energy development in this country. 
   I hope this tour is the start of an ongoing conversation among all Montanans and experts in energy development and agriculture. I want to work with Montanans to craft a policy that will launch Montana into a new phase of energy development-one that relies heavily on our strong agricultural communities, alternative energy and renewables like ethanol, sun, geothermal, and wind power. Responsible development of Montana's vast coal reserves will also strengthen our state's future. 
   During my IDEAs tour, I got to see all the oil and gas projects that are bringing big economic changes to Richland County. In Plentywood, we discussed the pros and cons of building a new refinery in northeastern Montana. In Glasgow, we had a great turnout of folks for a public panel discussion with experts in wind energy and ethanol production. And in Butte, I toured REC Silicon (which produces pure silicon for solar panels), Basin Creek Power Services, and the Montana Tech campus for an update on some very innovative projects. Researchers there are actually working on a way to heat buildings using warm water in the old mine shafts under Butte! 
   Everywhere we went, ideas were flowing. I look forward to sharing them with my colleagues on the Senate Energy Committee. People are excited about Montana's potential in the future of energy development. Indeed Montana can-and we will-provide the world with cheap, clean, renewable energy. All we need is a little jumpstart and we can get there. 
   I also had an opportunity last week to see firsthand the work at Malmstrom Air Force Base in Great Falls. I climbed into a missile silo, toured a launch complex, and I saw an impressive demonstration from Malmstrom's elite security forces unit. We Montanans are lucky to have such a smart, dedicated team serving us at Malmstrom and working to make our state and country safer. Those airmen are stewards of the most powerful weapons in world history-America's arsenal of Minuteman III missiles. 
   You may have already read about a proposal to remove 50 of those missiles. I made it clear after my tour of Malmstrom, Senator Baucus and I will do everything we can to keep the missiles in Montana where they are. 
   That's just a brief snapshot from the last few days back at home. Thankfully I had time to sneak to a Class C Basketball game last Friday. The young people of this state are so talented on some many fronts, and though I may be cheering for Big Sandy, it is just plain fun to watch all our folks work to succeed. Now it's onto another week at work in Washington. As always, I'd love to hear from you. 
   See you later, 
   Jon
 
 