UPDATE FROM WASHINGTON: THE 2007 ENERGY BILL WILL BRING JOBS AND OPPORTUNITY TO MONTANA
  After two weeks of debating, tinkering and compromise, the Senate has just given a thumbs up to a sweeping measure that changes our nation's energy policy. As a member of the Senate Energy Committee, I had a role making sure the 2007 Energy Bill is good for Montana. 
   The 2007 Energy Bill will move our state forward by providing more jobs and opportunity, more savings and cleaner air and water. The whole bill will make the U.S. safer by boosting our energy independence. It will also move Montana to the front of the pack when it comes to the future of energy development.
   One key component of the bill hits close to home for me. It provides more opportunities for Montana farmers by expanding the production of biofuels--fuels like biodiesel that come from farmland instead of deserts in the Middle East. The Energy Bill requires the U.S. to produce 36 billion gallons of biofuels by the year 2022. It also moves producers toward cellulosic ethanol, which doesn't compete with our food supply because it can be made from things like straw and tree bark.
   Another big part of the Energy Bill is carbon capture and sequestration, hopefully a term you've heard over the last few months. The bill we passed expands research to capture carbon dioxide emissions that cause global warming, and to store them safely underground. I included an amendment in the bill to pay for half the cost of carbon capture and sequestration equipment for coal and petroleum facilities.
   For the first time in 30 years, the Energy Bill also raises the average fuel efficiency for American-made vehicles. The average fuel efficiency will be 35 miles per gallon by the year 2020. Again this is a nationwide average, so while it saves money and gas, Montanans who rely on horsepower for their farm and ranch work will still have it.
   I also plan to move forward with my plan to provide incentives to developers who use clean and green technology to convert coal into liquid fuel (which is commonly called Coal to Liquids, or CTL). I made sure responsible CTL development was part of the energy conversation this time around. With 120 billion tons of coal reserves in Montana, coal will definitely be part of our energy future.
   Coal will pave the way to energy independence in this country, but we need to do it responsibly. With good carbon capture techniques, we can develop coal so that it's sustainable for the future, and clean.
   This bill wouldn't have been possible without Democrats and Republicans working together to make this country more sustainable and energy independent. It was a success, and I look forward to seeing it go to work for Montana.
   As always, I look forward to hearing from you.
 
 