$500,000 APPROVED FOR BILLINGS POLICE DEPARTMENT, MONTANA STATE UNIVERSITY-BILLINGS
  The Magic City will get a half million dollars in funding for a new Crime Scene Investigation vehicle and for outreach at Montana State University-Billings, Senators Max Baucus and Jon Tester announced today. 
   The Senate Appropriations Committee approved the funding plan today, as part of the Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations Bill. Baucus and Tester requested funding for the Montana projects earlier this year.
   The Billings Police Department will receive $200,000 to purchase a new Crime Scene Investigation vehicle. The Department currently uses a 1981 Ford van as its CSI vehicle. The old van is worn out and too small for new equipment. The new funding will allow the department to purchase a modern, state-of-the-art vehicle to process crime scenes and respond to incidents.
   "It's important for Montana's largest police force to have the tools it needs to keep residents and visitors safe and secure," said Billings Police Chief Rich St. John. "These dollars will go a long way toward upgrading our Department, and although early in the process, I am thankful for the effort of our delegation and for fighting to bring this money home from Washington."
   Montana State University-Billings will receive $300,000 for its Academic and Workforce Development Program at the Montana Women's Prison. The project will develop the workforce potential of inmates at Montana Women's Prison, so that they can integrate into the job market after serving their sentences. The funding will allow MSU-B to hire a program coordinator and educators.
   "Keeping crime off the streets and creating more opportunities for education are some of my top priorities in Washington," Baucus said. "Jon and I are working hard to keep priorities like these funded." 
   "This money will provide much-needed resources for making one of Montana's best police departments even better," Tester said. "This is great news for the folks who wear the badge in Billings, and for Montanans who are working hard to turn their lives around."
   The Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations Bill now goes to the full Senate for approval.
 
 