IT'S TIME FOR MORE ACCOUNTABILITY ON WARTIME CONTRACTORS
  There's no question the war in Iraq is costing us big time. Our biggest loss--more than 3,800 American lives. And in terms of money, we're spending about $3 billion every week. That's about $300,000 every minute of every hour of every day. 
   Sadly, we are wasting far too much of that taxpayer money in Iraq. In fact, the government estimates we've squandered at least $10 billion on contracting companies that charge too much and can't even give us receipts. That is enough money to meet the medical needs of veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan for the next four years. Montanans work too hard to have their tax dollars stolen from them.
   That's why I cosponsored a measure, which just passed the Senate, that establishes an independent, nonpartisan Commission on Wartime Contracting. I originally sponsored this plan with my freshman colleagues elected to the Senate last November. Since then, our measure picked up steam--and 30 cosponsors from both parties.
   Right now our military is relying on unprecedented numbers of private contracting firms to help rebuild Iraq and Afghanistan and to provide security. This Commission on Wartime Contracting will bring some much needed accountability to the way our tax dollars are spent on these companies.
   Many contracting companies are doing a great job serving our country and rebuilding others. But some of them are going way too far as war profiteers, because they can. Those who are deliberately stuffing themselves at the taxpayer trough while our troops are fighting and dying in Iraq are nothing short of treasonous.
   The Commission on Wartime Contracting will be made up of eight people in charge of overseeing all contractors and policies in Iraq and Afghanistan. Republicans and Democrats in Congress, as well as the Defense Secretary and Secretary of State, decide who gets to serve on the Commission. Our measure also expands the role of the Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction, who will audit contracting firms and watch for fraud and abuse.
   The bottom line is this: The Commission will provide accountability and save American taxpayers billions. It is modeled after the Truman Committee, which oversaw contracting projects during World War II and saved taxpayers more than $178 billion in today's dollars.
   It will make sure that the money goes to support the troops and the nations we're rebuilding, not the Christmas bonuses of a few executives. It's a simple but important measure that will make some long overdue changes to the way we spend money in Iraq.
 
 