SENS. BAUCUS, TESTER SECURE $6 MILLION FOR MSU TO RESEARCH CLEAN COAL TECHNOLOGY
  Montana State University's Center for Zero Emissions Research & Technology is receiving a $6 million boost in funding thanks to Montana's U.S. Senators Max Baucus and Jon Tester, which they helped secure as part of the fiscal year 2008 Energy and Water Appropriations bill. 
   The funding bill passed the Senate Appropriations committee and will now go before the full Senate for approval.
   "One of my top priorities is working to lessen our dependence on foreign sources of energy and boost production here at home," Baucus said. "That's why I was proud to work together with Jon to secure these dollars which will help harness some of Montana's own energy sources and will help create more good-paying jobs."
   "Our state is fortunate to have lots of energy sources right at our finger tips - wind, biomass, coal - and it's important we work on ways to harness and use them," Tester said. "Max and I want to do all we can to boost energy production in Montana that's why we worked so hard to secure the federal dollars."
   The Center for Zero Emissions is focused on developing zero emissions coal, which will help ensure that Montana's vast coal reserves remain a viable economic resource to the state and a secure energy source to the nation. The Center for Zero Emissions Research and Technology is helping develop and validate zero emission technologies for energy production from fossil fuels. Since greenhouse gas emissions anywhere in the world result in climate impacts over the entire planet, U.S. development of zero emission coal may lead to adoption and greenhouse gas avoidance in these large, developing economies.
   Tom McCoy, Vice President for Research at MSU, was pleased with today's announcement.
   "MSU is pleased and excited about the funding for the Center for Zero Emissions Technology (ZERT)," said McCoy. "Clean power from coal is essential to Montana and the nation's future, but there are still engineering, environmental, modeling and monitoring and other research questions that need to be answered in order for us to achieve reduced and zero emissions. This funding will enable MSU to work on these questions and help ensure that Montana's vast coal reserves remain a viable economic resource for the state and a secure energy source for the nation. We are deeply appreciative of the efforts of Senator Baucus and Senator Tester to secure this support for MSU and the state."
 
 