SENS. BAUCUS, TESTER RECOVER MORE THAN $1.25 MILLION FOR HUNTING ACCESS
  Montana's Sens. Max Baucus and Jon Tester have recovered more than $1.25 million in federal funding for the BLM to complete the purchase of nearly 5,550 acres for the Iron Mask conservation project in Broadwater County.  
   The funds were lost when Congress didn't fund specific projects, also known as earmarks, in the fiscal year 2007 spending bill earlier this year, requiring the senators to lobby agency official directly for the funding. 
   "We are grateful for the outstanding leadership of Senator Baucus, Senator Tester, and the Bureau of Land Management for supporting a final allocation from the Land and Water Conservation Fund which will complete the protection of over 5,500 acres of land at the Iron Mask property," said Gates Watson, Montana State Director for The Conservation Fund. "These funds will ensure the future protection of important elk habitat in the Elkhorn Mountains and provide remarkable recreational opportuities for the public to enjoy for generations to come." 
   "We Montanans are outdoors people. We hunt. We fish. We take our kids hiking, and one of my top priorities is to protect our outdoor heritage," Baucus said. "This is a great project because its means more access to more lands in the Elkhorns, and I've very pleased that we were able to secure these dollars." 
   "It's great to see this money coming to our state. All Montanans treasure access to public lands and outdoor recreation is something that runs in our blood," Tester said. "Montanans deserve to have good projects like this land acquisition continue to get funded so we can all enjoy access to our open spaces, streams and mountains." 
   The dollars are part of the Iron Mask conservation project, which will provide the public with access to 5,548 acres for hunting. This property is one of the largest intact public landscapes free of development on the east flank of the Elkhorn Mountains, and is home to several game animals including elk, mule deer, big horn sheep, and antelope. 
   In 2005, The Conservation Fund, in partnership with the Rocky Mountain Elk Foundation, acquired the 5,548 acre Iron Mask property. Since the purchase, using $1 million in federal funds and $540,000 from the Montana Fish and Wildlife Conservation Trust, the partnership has been able to sell 2,480 acres to the BLM. The $1.25 million secured by the Senators will enable the BLM to purchase the remaining lands from the partnership and complete the project this year. 
   The funds will be distributed to the BLM through the Department of the Interior.
 
 