SENS. BAUCUS, TESTER HELP PASS FINAL ETHICS REFORM BILL
  Montana senators Max Baucus and Jon Tester today helped pass the most sweeping congressional ethics reform in generations, sending the bill to the President Bush's desk where it's expected to be signed into law. 
   The ethics reform bill was the first bill passed by the 110th Congress earlier this year. Today the Senate passed the final version with a vote of 83-14. The final bill was passed overwhelmingly by the House yesterday, with a vote of 411-8.
   Baucus and Tester said the ethics reform bill brings more sunshine, transparency and accountability to Washington by cracking down on the way lawmakers deal with lobbyists, fundraising and appropriating federal money for certain projects. The ethics reform bill:
   Requires lawmakers to disclose spending projects. 
   Requires lawmakers to certify that neither they nor their relatives have financial interest in spending projects. 
   Requires lawmakers to disclose lobbyists who bundle campaign contributions of $15,000 or more. 
   Bans gifts to lawmakers from lobbyists and clients of lobbyists. 
   Ends subsidized travel for lawmakers on corporate airplanes. 
   Strips congressional retirement benefits from lawmakers convicted of crimes like perjury and bribery. 
   Prohibits lawmakers from attending lavish convention parties.
   Both Baucus and Tester have already set higher ethical standards for their offices, banning lobbyist gifts, travel and meals and prohibiting former employees who become lobbyists from returning to work at their offices.
   "This is a long-overdue, solid piece of legislation that we owe to all Americans," Baucus said. "This reform opens closed doors and brings more sunshine to Capitol Hill. Everyone has a right to know what their elected leaders are doing, who they're meeting with and what they're spending taxpayers' money on."
   Ethics reform was a major issue in Tester's Senate campaign.
   "I was sent to Washington because Montanans and all Americans are sick and tired of campaign contributions, steak dinners and golf trips being used as the currency for special laws and no-bid contracts," Tester said. "This reform will restore people's faith in government and bring back openness and transparency to the process."
   The ethics reform bill is S.1, also known as the Legislative Transparency and Accountability Act of 2007. More information about the bill can be viewed at: http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/bdquery/z?d110:SN00001:@@@L&summ2=m&#summary
 
 