SENS. BAUCUS, TESTER ANNOUNCE MONEY FOR TRIBAL EDUCATION PROGRAMS AT MONTANA STATE UNIVERSITY
  Montana Sens. Max Baucus and Jon Tester today announced a series of grants for Montana State University aimed at improving programs for American Indian students and educators. 
   The grants, totaling nearly $732,000, will help fund Head Start, distance learning and other programs, the senators said.
   "Any project that allows young men and women to return to the communities they grew up in and educate the next generation has my full support," Baucus said. "Education is key to a stronger economic future and these dollars will go a long way and mean a great deal to Indian Country."
   "Access to a quality education, especially at a young age, is the key to better jobs and communities," said Tester, a member of the Senate Indian Affairs Committee. "These programs, and others like them, are key to restoring hope in Indian Country."
   The programs receiving funding are as follows:
   I LEAD Project, $369,750: Funds will be used to recruit, educate, certify, employ, and induct 30 American Indian educators into school leadership positions. This program makes great strides in improving reservation schools while educating their next generation of leaders. 
   Tribal Head Start/Distance Education, $296,332: This grant will allow MSU's Distance Partnership to team with tribal Head Start programs to graduate 25 Tribal Head Start teachers with bachelor's degrees in Early Childhood Education. The program includes culturally integrated coursework that addresses strategies for working with traditional American Indian preschool children to include children with special needs, increased awareness of health and nutrition services, and the development of literacy skills. 
   Service in Engineering for Reservations Via Education (SERVE), $65,877: The Designing Our Community Program in the College of Engineering at MSU will use these funds to supplement programs already in place to recruit, retain, and graduate American Indians in engineering, engineering technology, and computer science degree programs. 
   The grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of Education.
 
 