MY NEWEST BILL GIVES LONG OVERDUE FAIR SHAKE TO OUR DISABLED VETERANS
  It's about time our disabled vets get a fair shake. For too long, they've been paying out of their own pockets to get the health care they were promised when they signed up to serve our country.  
   My newest legislation, the Disabled Veterans Fairness Act of 2007, calls for a change that hasn't been made in 30 years. It raises the mileage reimbursement rate for disabled vets who have to travel to receive VA health care. 
   Montana is home to over 107,000 veterans and travel reimbursement is one of the most common concerns I hear from them as I travel our state. And it's a concern I hear often in Washington, as a member of the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee. 
   Since 1977, the government has reimbursed disabled vets only $.11 per mile as they travel to treat injuries they received while defending our country. Unless you're riding a secondhand mule, we all know travel costs a lot more than that. 
   The Disabled Veterans Fairness Act raises the VA's reimbursement rate to the same rate federal employees receive. Currently, federal employees are reimbursed 48.5 cents for every mile they drive. That's about what it costs to travel the highways nowadays. 
   To put it in perspective, a disabled vet who lives in Plentywood and has to travel to Montana's only VA Hospital, Fort Harrison in Helena, currently gets reimbursed only $55 for that 500 mile trip. Under my bill, the vet going to see his doctor would get the same as a federal employee traveling for work, $242. 
   My bill also repeals the $18 deductible veterans must pay every month before they are eligible for mileage reimbursement 
   Just how much would this bill cost? Not very much, when you consider how much we're spending on the War in Iraq, where our troops are wounded every day. The Disabled Veterans Fairness Act would cost the U.S. government an estimated $127 million dollars a year. That's what we spend every ten hours in Iraq. 
   We owe this small but very important change to all our disabled vets. The government promised each of them accessible, quality health care. We've got a lot of work to do to make good on that promise, but this bill is a good, fair start. 
   Hope to see you soon, Jon.
 
 