SEN. TESTER TAKES ON FOREST POLICY IN RESPONSE TO 'WHOPPER' OF WILDFIRE SEASON
  Senator Jon Tester today went to the Senate Floor to draw attention to current forest management policy in response to Montana's raging wildfire season. 
   During his speech Tester told his Senate colleagues that the top four wildfires in the West are burning in Montana, and have forced hundreds of evacuations so far.
   Tester drew attention to the buildup of dry, ready-to-burn fuel in Montana's forests.
   "We'll never get back to the timber harvest levels of the 1970s, nor, probably, should we," Tester said. "But the pendulum has swung too far, and now we are too often fighting in the courts about cutting down trees. Quite frankly, we don't have enough people working out in the woods. That's a problem economically and ecologically."
   Tester also said the Ahorn Fire, burning in the Bob Marshall Wilderness, is "going to do pretty much what it wants to do" because of the dense buildup of dry growth due to years of fire suppression in the area. Tester personally toured the Ahorn Fire last Saturday. Since then, the fire nearly tripled in size.
   Tester compared the management of the Ahorn Fire to that of the nearby Fool Creek Fire, which the Forest Service has been letting burn because it was designated as a "Wildland Fire Use For Resource Benefit."
   "It's not very popular to tell the American people that the Forest Service is letting the woods burn," Tester said. "But what we've learned in the last 20 years is, sometimes, it's the right thing to do."
   Tester also told his colleagues that around 130 Montana National Guardsmen are now helping fight the state's wildfires. Some of them cancelled their summer plans to answer the call to help, he added.
   "They're working alongside other firefighters to do dangerous, hot, dirty work to protect Montana's people and property," Tester said. "To all of the wildland firefighters and guardsmen across this country, I say thank you. We owe them all respect and gratitude. We also owe them policies that will best benefit the landscape that they're working so hard to protect."
   Tester brought up the cost of fighting Montana's wildfires, noting that the Forest Service uses 45% of its budget on fire suppression. Tester said a recent proposal by Montana Senator Max Baucus to set up a trust fund to pay for firefighting costs "makes a great deal of sense."
   "With the Forest Service spending 45% of its budget on fire suppression? it barely has the time or the resources to restore our forests to health," Tester said. "It's something we have to do in order to ensure that funds will be available to do the work of restoring health to our forests."
 
 