SENS. BAUCUS, TESTER SECURE $8 MILLION FOR MISSOULA AREA MILITARY PROJECTS
  The U.S. Senate has approved $8 million dollars for several national defense projects in the Garden City, Montana Senators Max Baucus and Jon Tester announced today. 
   The projects are part of Defense Appropriations Bill which cleared the Senate Wednesday night by a voice vote. Baucus and Tester requested the appropriations earlier this year and fought for them in Washington.
   The Missoula projects include:
   $1 million for the University of Montana's Defense-Critical Languages and Cultures Program: The university will add additional capacity to their Arabic and Persian language programs, as well as add courses in Chinese (Mandarin). The new center will employ roughly 70 full-time professionals and work to help strengthen U.S. security through civilian critical language competency. 
   $3 million for Arcomac Surface Engineering LLC.: Arcomac Surface Engineering will team up with Rolls-Royce, Bell Helicopter, the Army Research Lab, and Plasma Vapor Deposition to develop the most effective solution to keep helicopter compressor blades from deteriorating. 
   $2 million for American Eagle Instruments: American Eagle Instruments is working to develop high-tech prosthetics for soldiers who have had amputated limbs. These new prosthetics will cost less and decrease the need for frequent replacement. 
   $1 million for military hearing loss therapy through the University of Montana: UM is working to develop a new therapy to provide options for soldiers who have had hearing loss due to their service. This innovative research is focusing on a specific human gene that could potentially allow for hearing improvement by re-growing hair cells in the ear. 
   $1 million for GCS Research of Missoula and S&K Electronics of Pablo for the Smart Data Program, which will develop real-time digital video from unmanned aerial systems. 
   "I'm delighted to hear of the progress of this project and deeply appreciative of the vision Senators Baucus and Tester have shown in supporting the teaching of languages critical to U.S. security," said Terry M. Weidner, Director of UM's Maureen & Mike Mansfield Center. "These funds will allow us to expand our capacity to provide intensive training in Chinese to our own students while also helping American military officers who have trained in the language sustain their proficiency."
   "These dollars will allow the cutting edge research being done in Missoula to continue," said Baucus. "Projects like these are good for Missoula, good for Montana, and good for America. That's why Jon and I will continue to fight for them."
   "Both the University of Montana and the surrounding community have been leaders for many years in research that will make our country safer. The investment that cleared the Appropriations Committee today will strengthen our military overseas and help care for our warriors when they come home," said Tester. "These projects were a priority for Max and I and we're doing everything in our power to see them become a reality."
 
 