SENATE CLEARS $31 MILLION FOR MONTANA MILITARY PROJECTS
  The latest spending bill passed by the U.S. Senate will make Montana a national powerhouse when it comes to military research, development and training, Senators Max Baucus and Jon Tester announced today.
   The senators secured $31 million for various Montana projects in the Defense Appropriations Bill, which passed the Senate Wednesday night by a voice vote. 
   The measure funds projects ranging from high-tech research to university programs to new training exercises at Malmstrom Air Force Base. The money is in addition to $14.6 million in Montana military construction projects that passed the Senate last month.
   "Jon and I are delivering on our promise to bring new, good-paying jobs and more opportunities to the Big Sky State," Baucus said. "This bill will not only make Montana a better place to work and raise a family, it will make our country safer and more secure."
   "Max and I fought hard for these projects because there are so many opportunities to improve our national security right here in Montana," Tester said. "This measure will give our troops the resources they need and give the entire state a shot in the arm by funding projects that will secure Montana's valuable role in the defense of our country."
   The bill passed the full Senate today sets aside money for:
   MISSOULA/PABLO:
   $1 million for a Critical Languages and Cultures Program at the University of Montana to improve education in Arabic, Persian and Chinese. 
   $1 million for military hearing loss therapy through the University of Montana. 
   $2 million for American Eagle Instruments to develop high-tech prosthetics for troops who loose limbs. 
   $3 million for Arcomac Surface Engineering to develop advanced ceramic-coated helicopter blades. 
   $1 million for GCS Research of Missoula and S&K Electronics of Pablo for the Smart Data Program, which will develop real-time digital video from unmanned aerial systems. 
   GREAT FALLS/BROWNING:
   $800,000 to fund cyber security attack & defense exercises at Malmstrom Air Force Base. 
   $5 million for Cubic Corporation in Great Falls to purchase an I-HITS system, which provides both training and live-combat technology to help American troops better identify friendly forces on the battlefield. Both Malmstrom Air Force Base and the Montana National Guard will use system.
   $2 million for the Blackfeet Nation Tribal Business to develop lightweight, low-cost materials for missile defense equipment.
   BOZEMAN:
   $1.5 million for Montana State University's MilTech Extension Program, to adapt new technology from small businesses in Montana for military use. 
   $1.2 million for AdvR Inc. for groundbreaking optical research to secure military communications. 
   BUTTE:
   $2.5 million for Montana Tech to develop high-tech fuel cells for the U.S. Navy. 
   $5 million for MSE Technology Applications for its Mariah Hypersonic Wind Tunnel Development Program, which will help the military develop new combat technology.
   $3 million for MSE Technology Applications to design and build a system to safely destroy obsolete and hazardous munitions.
   $2 for Synesis 7 to help complete the "F/A-18 A-D Series Tech Manual Conversion" and related support tasks for the NAVAIR F/A-18 program.
   In addition to the projects for Montana, Baucus and Tester supported several other projects that will indirectly benefit the Treasure State. The bill includes $13.5 million to modify the nation's fleet of Minuteman III missiles. It also includes $3.3 million for the nation's tribal colleges to develop instrumentation programs. In all, the bill will provide more than $450 billion in funding for pay raises, equipment and training for the men and women of the United States Armed Forces.
 
 