SENS. BAUCUS, TESTER BRING BIG BUCKS TO BOZEMAN
  Montana Senators Max Baucus and Jon Tester announced today that a the United State Senate has approved their request for $2.7 million for military projects in Bozeman. 
   The Defense Appropriations Bill today which included funds for the following Bozeman projects:
   * $1.2 million for AdvR Inc.: Bozeman-based AdvR Inc. will use the funds to work on Advanced Engineered Non-Linear Optical Materials for Critical Wavelengths. This groundbreaking research holds the potential to revolutionize secure military communications.
   * $1.5 million for Montana State University: MSU will use the funds for MilTech Extension Program. This highly successful program helps bridge the gap between the military and private companies. This program allows companies, specifically ones based in Montana, to sell their products to the military, as well as finding ways to use military technology in the private sector.
   "Whether its helping make sure our troops will be safe abroad, or helping businesses take off here at home, these dollars are much-deserved," Baucus said. "I know the folks in Bozeman are working to keep our great state at the heart of our nation's defense, and Jon and I are going to make sure they have the resources they need to succeed."
   "The projects are truly groundbreaking, and keeping Montana on the military's map," Tester said. "And if these dollars can keep them thriving, then it was well worth the work, and Max and I will make sure they have every possible resource at their finger tips."
   "This funding that Max and Jon have been able to secure allows us to continue our work. It would not have happened without their faith in our technology and the laser industry here in Bozeman," said Ron Cooper, Director of Program Development at AdvR, Inc. "The support of Max and Jon is allowing us to grow here in Bozeman and is providing some of the only U. S. industry development for a host of defense applications."
   "This funding will permit Montana State University to continue its outreach to Montana companies that are developing and delivering innovative technologies to the Department of Defense," said Steve Holland, Director of the Montana Manufacturing Extension Center. "Senators Max Baucus and Jon Tester have been working hard on tax and trade issues for small manufacturers. This is another example of their commitment to help Montana's entrepreneurial small companies grow"
   The bill will now go to a committee to iron out the difference between the House and Senate.
 
 