SENS. BAUCUS, TESTER HAIL FUNDS FOR MONTANA MILITARY CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS
  Montana's U.S. Senators Max Baucus and Jon Tester today announced $14.6 million for Montana military projects as part of the fiscal year 2008 Military Construction Appropriations Bill, which passed the full Senate today. 
   "This funding will provide a real boost to our military centers in our state," Baucus said. "It's more important than ever that our top-notch military continues to receive the resources needed to serve and protect our country. That's why I was pleased to help ensure that Montana's military men and women receive the funding they need to do their jobs." 
   "This is a great start for Montana, and it's an investment that will make us stronger and safer," Tester said. "It's an honor for me to fight for projects that make Malmstrom a better place to live and work, and for projects that will help train our troops to remain the very best in the world."
   Baucus and Tester said the fiscal year 2008 Military Construction Appropriations bill includes funds for the following Montana projects:
   * $7 million: Community Activity Center at Malmstrom Air Force Base - Great Falls: The funding will be used to construct a new Community Activity Center, which will provide recreational activities that promote family well-being and enhance mental and physical fitness. The center will also provide a wing with a conference center for large and small groups. It will provide kitchen capabilities to cater functions anywhere on base. Currently, Malmstrom AFB does not have a CAC; it was closed in 1994 due to base space shortages.
   * $7.629 million: Army Reserve Center - Butte: The money will be used for land acquisition, construction of an ARC Training building, Organizational Maintenance Shop (OMS), unheated storage building, and organizational parking.
   Baucus and Tester were also pleased about the increase in funding for the Department of Veterans Affairs. The bill provides $43 billion, which is $3.6 billion more than the President requested earlier this year.
   The senators said that the appropriations bill passed the Senate today. The House has already passed its version of the bill. The two bills will now go before a joint committee of House and Senate members to work out differences between the two bills.
 
 