NEW WEBSITE SEEKS TAX-DEDUCTIBLE DONATIONS FOR VETERANS' FACILITIES
  Montana Lieutenant Governor John Bohlinger has teamed up with Montana's U.S. Senators to ask Montanans to tune in to TVs for Vets and consider making a tax-deductible donation to the new grassroots program. 
   TVs for Vets is a fundraising effort by Montana veterans to purchase new televisions for veterans' facilities across Montana. Many TVs currently in facilities like hospitals, clinics and rest homes are outdated.
   Only "hospital grade" televisions-ones that don't emit static electricity and are more expensive than conventional TV sets-are allowed in veterans' medical facilities. TVs for Vets will purchase, install and maintain the new hospital grade TVs.
   During a news conference today at the Montana State Capitol, Bohlinger, Senator Jon Tester and TVs for Vets director Dan Koehl encouraged Montanans to support the program and announced a new website to raise the $90,000 needed to provide veterans' facilities with new TVs. About half of the money has already been raised.
   "Many veterans spend days or weeks at Fort Harrison, and hours and hours in VA clinics around the state," Bohlinger said. "This is just a small endeavor to make sure they have a little extra comfort."
   Tester, a member of the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee, said TVs for Vets is a worthwhile program that will benefit many of Montana's nearly 110,000 veterans.
   "A lot of veterans are still fighting for the health care they were promised, and they have to spend a lot of their time waiting or recuperating in VA facilities," Tester said. "Making sure veterans have adequate TVs is a small thing to ask on behalf of the folks who fought for our country."
   "TVs for Vets has worked hard to provide our veterans with some of the basic things they deserve," said Senator Max Baucus. "Montanans are generous people, and they're very concerned about our veterans. I look forward to seeing them come together to support this good cause."
   Anyone wishing to donate to TVs for Vets may do so by logging on to the secure website www.tvsforvets.com. Montanans may also send tax-deductible donations to:
   TVs for Vets
   VA Medical Center
  c/o Volunteer Service
  P.O. Box 167
  Ft. Harrison, Montana 59636
   Anyone making donations is asked to make checks payable to "VA General Post Fund 8806."
 
 