SENS. BAUCUS, TESTER: $525,000 FOR MILES CITY HEADED TO PRESIDENT'S DESK
  Montana Senators Max Baucus and Jon Tester today announced that $525,000 will be set aside for Miles City Community College and Holy Rosary Healthcare as part of the fiscal year 2008 Labor Health and Human Services Appropriations Bill, which is now headed to the President's desk. 
   Baucus and Tester said $350,000 will be used for Miles City Community College's Pathways to Careers in Health Care initiative. The program will help to train health care workers to work in rural communities both in eastern Montana, and nationwide.
   "We are grateful for the support Max and Jon have given to the Pathways to Careers in Health Care program," said Tad Torgerson, Dean of Administrative Services "This will greatly assist Miles City Community College in providing a much-needed workforce in a variety of healthcare related fields in Eastern Montana."
   Holy Rosary Healthcare will receive $175,000 for its teleradiology program, which allows doctors to send, receive and analyze x-rays via computers without having to physically send them around the state. The new technology will greatly improve health care for many Montanans who live in eastern Montana, Baucus and Tester said.
   "This is a great step for the delivery of rural health care as it allows for connectivity amongst rural providers and keeps things local in Eastern Montana," said Greg Nielsen, CEO of Holy Rosary Healthcare. "We appreciate the support of Senators Baucus and Tester."
   "Folks in Montana deserve to have access to quality, affordable health care - it's a basic right," Baucus said. "And I was pleased to help secure the funding that will provide the resources needed to keep folks healthy."
   "Coming from a small town, I understand firsthand how important rural health care is to rural America," said Tester, who visited Holy Rosary Healthcare last month. "These dollars will help Montanans get the health care they need and deserve."
 
 