SENS. BAUCUS, TESTER HAIL MORE THAN $440,00 FOR HELENA PROJECTS
  Montana Senators Max Baucus and Jon Tester today praised the Senate for including $440,000 for Helena area education and health projects as part of the fiscal year 2008 Labor Health and Humans Services Appropriations Bill, which passed the Senate late today. 
   "This funding will help boost our state's health care services and better prepare our kids for good-paying jobs tomorrow," Baucus said. "This funding will provide a real shot-in-the-arm to the Queen city."
   "Folks in rural areas should have access to the same health care and education resources as folks in other areas of the country," Tester said. "Max and I were proud to secure this funding for Helena hospitals and Carroll College."
   The appropriations funding will be used for the following Helena area projects:
   * $200,000: Carroll College Civil Engineering: to develop subject areas within the Civil Engineering curriculum including environmental engineering, water resources, transportation systems, and structural engineering. Plans call for expanding and improving the laboratory facilities to allow for increasing enrollment and a more diverse teaching and research experience for students and faculty. In addition it will help with issues around the state related to an aging infrastructure, new environmental mandates, and increasing growth and development.
   * $120,000: Shodair Children's Hospital, Helena: will help provide state-of-the-art technology for genetic counseling and laboratory services associated with cancers. This proposal will enable the hospital to provide cancer genetic services to Montanans quickly and with the newest technology.
   * $120,000: St. Peter's Hospital, Helena: will help with completing the expansion of the hospital. Funding will specifically go for constructing a fourth floor to better serve growing needs.
   "This is great news. In addition to responding to the national priority to increase the number of U.S. citizens with advanced degrees in science, technology, engineering and mathematics, this initiative will support Montana's need to address issues around the state related to aging infrastructure, new environmental mandates and increasing growth and development," said Dr. Tom Trebon, President of Carroll College. "Senators Max Baucus and Jon Tester really stepped up to the plate for us." 
   Jack Casey, administrator at Shodair Children's Hospital in Helena, Montana said, "We are very happy with the news from Max and Jon. This will enable the citizens of Montana to receive quality cancer care, closer to home."
   St. Peter's President & CEO John Solheim was also thrilled with the announcement.
   "We are excited about the support St. Peter's received for an appropriations request," stated St. Peter's President & CEO John Solheim. "The Hospital greatly appreciates Senators Max Baucus and Jon Tester's efforts to help St. Peter's expand its services to meet the growing health care needs of every person in the Helena region."
 
 