SENS. BAUCUS, TESTER ANNOUNCE NEARLY $2.8 MILLION FOR FIVE MONTANA AIRPORTS
  Five communities across Montana will receive money from the federal government to make significant improvements to their airports, Sens. Max Baucus and Jon Tester announced today.  
   "It's certainly exciting for us because we're interested in getting the contracts underway as soon as possible," said Dave Stelling, manager of the Federal Aviation Administration's district office in Helena. "We have such a short construction season in Montana and we're glad to get the grants issued at this point."
   The grants will be awarded as follows: 
   Helena: $1,944,346
   * The Helena Regional Airport Authority will use its $1,944,346 grant to build an aircraft rescue and firefighting training facility, to expand the rescue and fire building, to improve the taxiway, to improve security and to conduct a miscellaneous study.
   Jordan: $147,170
   * The City of Jordan and Garfield County will use its $147,170 grant to buy new snow removal equipment and to build a new facility to store snow removal equipment.
   Laurel: $260,560
   * The $260,560 grant will be used to improve the Laurel Municipal Airport's runway, to conduct a runway study, to install better weather reporting equipment and to install airfield guidance signs.
   Polson: $261,367
   * The City of Polson and Lake County will use its $261,367 grant to build a new fuel facility at the Polson Airport.
   West Yellowstone: $164,000
   * The Yellowstone Airport will use its $164,000 grant to build a perimeter fence, which will protect the airport from wildlife.
   "From shipping products across the country, to getting essential medical care, to just traveling to see friends, folks rely on well-maintained airports," Baucus said. "And I'm pleased that these airports got these much deserved dollars so Montanans and visitors alike can enjoy all that Big Sky country has to offer."
   "This is good news for all of Montana," Tester said. "Airports are a critically important part of infrastructure in our state. Better airports bring better medical care, easier travel, more tourism and stronger agriculture." 
   The grants will be awarded through the U.S. Department of Transportation.
 
 