SEN. TESTER DELIVERS FIRST SPEECH ON U.S. SENATE FLOOR
  The "For Sale" sign on Congress will be taken down and "Pay-to-Play" practices on Capitol Hill are about to come to an end, Montana Senator Jon Tester told his colleagues today during his first speech on the floor of the U.S. Senate.  
   Tester used his speech to highlight his support for the Legislative Transparency and Accountability Act of 2007, which has bipartisan support in the U.S. Senate. 
   The ethics reform bill toughens Senate rules by banning gifts, meal and travel paid for by lobbyists. The bill also clamps down on secretive earmarks and limits access to lawmakers by former members of Congress and their employees who become lobbyists. 
   "The best way to work for the American people is to ensure that they cannot only see what is happening in their government, but they can take part in their government," Tester said. "It is time for transparency, time for working families, small business, family farms and ranchers to not only be heard but to be represented and empowered in this body and in the halls of our nation's capitol." 
   The Legislative Transparency and Accountability Act of 2007 makes broad changes to the way members of Congress are allowed to do business. 
   During his speech, Tester highlighted some of the bill's key reforms: 
   No more currying favor with members of Congress and staff by lobbyists through meals, entertainment and travel. No more last-minute, "midnight" earmarks for lawmakers' pet projects. No more floor or gym privileges for former members of Congress lobbying on behalf of their clients. No more "K-Street Projects" in which members of Congress force lobbying firms to hire former staff members or lose support for those firms' projects. "All of these special privileges and activities get in the way of making real change that will improve the lives of hard-working and honest American and Montana families," Tester said. 
   The U.S. House overwhelmingly passed its version of the ethics reform bill last week.
 
 