SENS. BAUCUS, TESTER HAIL NEARLY $6 MILLION IN MONTANA GRANT FUNDING
  Montana Senators Max Baucus and Jon Tester today announced nearly $6 million in grants from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. 
   The grants will benefit Montanans all over the state, from helping fund community health programs to aiding first-time homebuyers.
   "I am proud to announce these grants because they are just one more way to help Montanans lead healthier lives," said Baucus. "These are all worthwhile projects that help Montana's health care system. One of my top priorities is to make sure every Montanan has access to quality, affordable health care and this money will help make this happen."
   "Federal aid for these important projects will go a long way in Montana," said Tester. "Funding for quality health care benefits all Montanans, no matter where they live. And it will help keep our state one of the most livable places in the world."
   The grants will be awarded as follows:
   Billings: Yellowstone City-County Health Department: $359,795 for HIV/AIDS clinic aid. 
   Billings: Human Resource Development Council, District 7: $70,000 to aid the Assets for Independence Program. 
   Bozeman: Montana State University: $295,536 for MSU's advanced nursing education program. 
   Helena: Lewis and Clark City-County Health Department: $338,200 for general improvements. 
   Helena: Montana Credit Unions: $20,000 to assist with the Helena Community First-Time Homebuyer Project. 
   Missoula: Missoula City-County Health Department: $755,593 for general improvements. 
   Statewide: Montana Department of Health and Human Services: $1,098,195 to help fight heart disease in Montana. 
   Statewide: Montana Department of Health and Human Services: $263,792 to assist with disability education projects by the Montana Disability & Health Program in cooperation with The University of Montana's Rural Institute. 
   Statewide: Montana Department of Health and Human Services: $2,705,410 to assist with data collection and assessment for the Montana Central Tumor Registry and the Montana Comprehensive Cancer Program.
 
 