SENS. BAUCUS, TESTER PASS FINAL MEASURE SECURING MILLIONS FOR MISSOULA
  Senators Max Baucus and Jon Tester have secured $5.8 million dollars for military projects in Missoula by passing the final Defense Appropriations Bill. 
   The measure cleared the Senate late last night by a voice vote, and now goes to President Bush to sign into law.
   The final spending bill includes nearly $31 million for various military research and technology projects across Montana. Baucus and Tester requested the funding earlier this year.
   The Missoula projects include:
   * $1 million for the University of Montana's Defense-Critical Languages and Cultures Program: The university will add additional capacity to their Arabic and Persian language programs, as well as add courses in Chinese (Mandarin). The new center will employ roughly 70 full-time professionals and work to help strengthen U.S. security through civilian critical language competency. 
   * $2.4 million for Arcomac Surface Engineering LLC.: Arcomac Surface Engineering will team up with Rolls-Royce, Bell Helicopter, the Army Research Lab, and Plasma Vapor Deposition to develop the most effective solution to keep helicopter compressor blades from deteriorating. 
  $1.6 million for American Eagle Instruments: American Eagle Instruments is working to develop high-tech prosthetics for soldiers who have had amputated limbs. These new prosthetics will cost less and decrease the need for frequent replacement. 
   * $800,000 for military hearing loss therapy through the University of Montana: UM is working to develop a new therapy to provide options for soldiers who have had hearing loss due to their service. This innovative research is focusing on a specific human gene that could potentially allow for hearing improvement by re-growing hair cells in the ear. 
   "I'm delighted to hear of the progress of this project and deeply appreciative of the vision Senators Baucus and Tester have shown in supporting the teaching of languages critical to U.S. security," said Terry M. Weidner, Director of UM's Maureen & Mike Mansfield Center. "These funds will allow us to expand our capacity to provide intensive training in Chinese to our own students while also helping American military officers who have trained in the language sustain their proficiency."
   "These dollars will allow the cutting edge research being done in Missoula to continue," said Baucus. "Projects like these are good for Missoula, good for Montana, and good for America. That's why Jon and I will continue to fight for them and will urge President Bush to sign them into law."
   "The University of Montana and the surrounding community are true leaders in research that will make our country safer," Tester said. "This is an investment that will strengthen our military overseas and help care for our warriors when they come home."
 
 