SENS. BAUCUS, TESTER BRING BIG BUCKS FOR BOZEMAN HEADED TO PRESIDENT
  Montana Senators Max Baucus and Jon Tester announced today that nearly $6 million in federal funds will soon be heading to Bozeman. 
   The final Defense Appropriations bill has passed both the House and the Senate and is now headed to the President for his expected signature
   The final Defense Appropriations Bill today includes funds for the following Bozeman projects:
   $960,000 for AdvR Inc.: Bozeman-based AdvR Inc. will use the funds to work on Advanced Engineered Non-Linear Optical Materials for Critical Wavelengths. This groundbreaking research holds the potential to revolutionize secure military communications. 
   $1.5 million for Montana State University: MSU will use the funds for MilTech Extension Program. This highly successful program helps bridge the gap between the military and private companies. This program allows companies, specifically ones based in Montana, to sell their products to the military, as well as finding ways to use military technology in the private sector. 
   $2.5 million for Montana State University and Advanced Acoustic Concepts: The funds will be used to develop the Distributed Multi-Platform Sensor Support System, which will improve military telecommunications. 
  $1 million for Montana State University's mechanical engineering department to develop lighter, more efficient jet engines with improved fuel efficiency. 
   "Jon and I know how important federal dollars are to keeping this projects running," Baucus said. ""And I want to make sure that the programs can spend their time making our soldiers safer, not worrying about where their funding is going to come from.
   "Making sure Montana's military projects have they resources they need to continue their great work is one of my top-priorities," Tester said. "And these projects are going to keep Montana at the forefront of our nation's defense"
    "Max and Jon's support for our defense materials development is critical. Their belief and support for our technology development and the laser industry here in Bozeman is really appreciated" said Ron Cooper, Director of Program Development at AdvR, Inc The support of Max and Jon allows us to build a technology company right here in Bozeman and to support jobs for our university
   "This funding will permit Montana State University to continue its outreach to Montana companies that are developing and delivering innovative technologies to the Department of Defense," said Steve Holland, Director of the Montana Manufacturing Extension Center. "Senators Max Baucus and Jon Tester have been working hard on tax and trade issues for small manufacturers. This is another example of their commitment to help Montana's entrepreneurial small companies grow"
 
 