SENS. BAUCUS, TESTER SECURE NEARLY $31 MILLION FOR MONTANA MILITARY PROJECTS
  Senators Max Baucus and Jon Tester have secured nearly $31 for Montana military projects by passing the final version of a defense spending bill.
   The Defense Appropriations Bill includes $30,560,000 for various Montana projects, which Baucus and Tester say will help make Montana a leader in defense technology, manufacturing and research. The bill now goes to President Bush's desk for a signature. 
   "Jon and I are delivering on our promise to bring new, good-paying jobs and more opportunities to Montana," Baucus said. "This measure gives our state a shot in the arm by funding projects that will secure Montana's valuable role in the defense of our country
   "Max and I fought hard for these projects because they're critically important to our national security, and they will bring new jobs and a better economy to Montana," Tester said. "We've done our part. Now the President needs to sign this bill."
   The final Defense Appropriations Bill passed the Senate late Thursday night by voice vote. It sets aside money for:
   MISSOULA:
   $1 million for a Critical Languages and Cultures Program at the University of Montana to improve education in Arabic, Persian and Chinese. 
   $800,000 for military hearing loss therapy through the University of Montana. 
   $1.6 million for American Eagle Instruments to develop high-tech prosthetics for troops who loose limbs. 
   $2.4 million for Arcomac Surface Engineering to develop advanced ceramic-coated helicopter blades. 
   GREAT FALLS/BROWNING:
   $4 million for Cubic Corporation in Great Falls to purchase an Initial-Homestation Instrumentation Training System (I-HITS). The I-HITS system provides both training and live-combat technology to help American troops better identify friendly forces on the battlefield. Both Malmstrom Air Force Base and the Montana National Guard will use system. 
   $800,000 to fund cyber security attack & defense exercises at Malmstrom Air Force Base. 
   $1.6 million for the Blackfeet Nation Tribal Business to develop lightweight, low-cost materials for missile defense equipment. 
   $2.4 million to improve communications for aircraft that patrol the northern border, including the Montana Air National Guard. 
   BOZEMAN:
   $1.5 million for Montana State University's MilTech Extension Program, to adapt new technology from small businesses in Montana for military use. 
  $1 million for Montana State University's mechanical engineering department to develop lighter, more efficient jet engines with improved fuel efficiency. 
  $960,000 million for AdvR Inc. for groundbreaking optical research to secure military communications. 
  $2.5 million for Montana State University and Advanced Acoustic Concepts to develop the Distributed Multi-Platform Sensor Support System, which will improve military telecommunications. 
   BUTTE:
   $2 million for Montana Tech to develop high-tech fuel cells for the U.S. Navy. 
   $4 million for MSE Technology Applications for its Mariah Hypersonic Wind Tunnel Development Program, which will help the military develop new combat technology. 
   $2.4 million for MSE Technology Applications to design and build a system to safely destroy obsolete and hazardous munitions. 
   $1.6 for Synesis 7 to help complete the "F/A-18 A-D Series Tech Manual Conversion" and related support tasks for the NAVAIR F/A-18 program. 
   In addition to the projects for Montana, Baucus and Tester supported several other projects that will indirectly benefit the Treasure State. The bill includes $10.5 million to modify the nation's fleet of Minuteman III missiles. It also includes $3.3 million for the nation's tribal colleges to develop instrumentation programs. In all, the bill will provide more than $450 billion in funding for pay raises, equipment and training for the men and women of the United States Armed Forces.
 
 