
            	Senator Biden is Interviewed on Hardball
             August 1, 2006 
 Mike BARNICLE: Senator Joe Biden of Delaware is one of the leading Democrats who signed the letter to President Bush, calling for a phased withdrawal of troops from Iraq beginning by year's end. He's also the top Democrat on the Foreign Relations Committee.   Senator Biden, why the letter now and why not more specific in  terms of numbers?      BIDEN:  Well, two reasons.  One, the military should come up with  the numbers, Mike.      And, two, the reason for it now is the same resolution we tried to pass earlier, saying, Mr. President, you've got to do two things. You've got to get this new government to get Sunni buy-in, you've got to amend the constitution so they get a piece of the oil in order to stop the insurgency. And, number two, you've got to purge the police of the sectarian hit squads that are there.   And, Mr. President, you said, and General Casey told me two weeks ago, Mike, or three weeks ago when I was in Baghdad with him, they planned on drawing down beginning of September. We're becoming as much of the problem as we are the solution.   BARNICLE: Do you worry, Senator, that the letter, when Americans read about the letter in the newspapers and hear about it on TV shows like this, that there's a sense that this letter, signed by these Democrats, is more about the off-year elections than it is about Iraq?   BIDEN: Well, I'm not worried about that if they read the letter, and if they get a chance to talk about it like we are. It's merely what the administration has already said they were going to do.   They acknowledge that increased U.S. presence in the region is likely to be as much of a problem as it is a solution; that there needs to be a political solution by the Iraqi government that's recently been elected; and that the United States of America has to begin to transfer that responsibility and authority over -- maintaining the peace -- to the Iraqis.   It's all what we've been saying, as we're just basically saying: Mr. President, begin to implement what you said you were going to do. You need a political solution.   BARNICLE:  You were in Baghdad a couple of weeks ago?      BIDEN: I was. I was back for my seventh time. I guess -- it was the Fourth of July weekend, Mike. It was of the weekend after the Fourth of July, I should say. I met with -- I was in Basra, which is down in the south, the oil port. I was also up in Baghdad. Then I was out in Fallujah with our Marines.   And then I flew out to a base in the middle of nowhere, which is called -- it's an airstrip that is in the middle of nowhere, that we're probably going to be putting some troops there.   And I got to speak to a lot of our generals. And they all -- we asked Casey directly, Jack Reed of Rhode Island and I: What's your plan for draw down? He said we're going to begin to draw down in September.   He also told us -- General Dempsey, the person in charge of training Iraqi forces said that we have got a relatively well-trained Iraqi army, but we have to purge the police of the sectarian violence.   And they all said, no matter who we were talking to, that what the problem is, the great concern, is not the insurgency which is real, but a civil war, the Shia going after the Sunnis and vice versa. And our troops can't solve that for them.   BARNICLE: So your experience in Baghdad, having been there many times, the president's plan, the administration's plan to reinsert more troops, redeploy more troops into the city of Baghdad, what's your sense of what might happen, given the horrific violence that seems only to be on the increase, especially within the confines of Baghdad?   BIDEN: Mike, I hate to say this. I don't think much more is going to get better in Baghdad, even with the reinsertion of a couple American brigades. And the reason I say that, Mike, is that there is a need for a political solution.   The only way you're going to get some change in the insurgency -- that's the outfits, those guys coming out of Anbar province mainly, mostly Sunnis, the old Baathists -- is you've got to be able to give the Sunnis a piece of the action. You have got to amend the constitution to guarantee them part of the oil revenue, which was the implicit promise when they voted on the constitution in December.   And, secondly, you've got to get this new government and this new prime minister to sign on, and have enough nerve to take on al-Sadr, and the Mahdi militia that's significantly infiltrated the police forces, that are walking around in uniforms and acting as death squads. You've got to clean that up.   Absent doing those two things, Michael, putting another 100,000 troops in Baghdad at this point isn't going to solve the problem.   BARNICLE:  Senator Joe Biden, thanks very much.      BIDEN:  Thank you.      END   