
            	Sen. Biden Speaks Out on Senate Floor on Bipartisan Iraq Resolution
             February 1, 2007 
 *Transcript*Mr. BIDEN: I would like to make a few brief comments this morning on the Warner resolution and the negotiations that went on yesterday, led by Senator Levin, to deal with Iraq.Three weeks ago before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Secretary Rice presented the President's plan for Iraq.  The Presiding Officer, among others, was there.  Its main feature was to send more American troops into Baghdad, in the middle of a sectarian war, in the middle of a city of over 6 million people.The reaction to the Senate Foreign Relations Committee from Republicans and Democrats alike ranged from profound skepticism to outright opposition.  That pretty much reflected the reaction across the country.Consequently, Senators Hagel, Levin, Snowe, and I wrote a resolution to give Senators a way to vote their voices, vote what they had said.  We believe, the four of us, and I know the Presiding Officer does, as well, that the quickest, most effective way to get the President to change his course is to demonstrate to him that his policy has little or no support in this Senate, in our committee, or, quite frankly, across the country.After we introduced our resolution, Senator Warner came forward with his resolution.  The bottom line of the resolution is essentially the same, and it was:  Don't send more American troops into the middle of a civil war.There was one critical difference between the Biden-Levin and the Warner amendment.  Senator Warner's resolution, in one paragraph, left open, I think unintentionally, the possibility of increasing the overall number of American troops in Iraq -- just not in Baghdad.  So from our perspective it wasn't enough to say don't go into Baghdad with more troops; we wanted to say don't raise the number of troops, as well.The provision in the Warner amendment that allowed for that, if read by the President the way he would want to read it, I believe, would have allowed an increase in troops.  We believe very strongly -- Senator Levin, myself, Hagel, Snowe -- that would send the wrong message.  We ought to be drawing down in Iraq, not ramping up.  We ought to be redeploying, not deploying into Baghdad.  We should make it clear to the Iraqi leaders that they have to begin to make the hard compromises necessary for a political solution.  A political solution everyone virtually agrees on is the precondition for anything positive happening in Iraq. Now, I make it clear, I and everyone else in this Senate knows that it is not an easy thing for the Iraqi leadership to do, but it is absolutely essential.  So we approached Senator Warner several times to try to work out the difference between the Biden and the Warner resolutions.  I am very pleased that last night, through the leadership of Senator Warner and Senator Levin, we succeeded in doing just that.  The language Senator Warner removed from his resolution removed the possibility that it can be read as calling for more troops in Iraq.  With that change, I am very pleased to join Senator Levin, now known as the Levin-Warner resolution, as a cosponsor of that resolution.  For my intent, at the outset when I first spoke out about the President's planned surge of American forces in Iraq, when I spoke out before the new year, I made it clear that my purpose was to build bipartisan opposition to his plan because that was the best way to get him to reconsider.  That is exactly what this compromise does.Now we have a real opportunity for the Senate to speak clearly.  Every Senator will have a chance to vote on whether he or she supports or disagrees with the President's plan to send more troops into the middle of a civil war.  If the President does not listen to the majority of the Congress -- and I expect the majority of Congress will vote for our resolution -- if he does not respond to a majority of the Congress and a majority of the American people, we will have to look for other ways to change his policy.  But this is a very important first step.Also, I would like to take a moment to present what I believe are the principal findings of our 4 weeks of hearings, over 50 hours, if I am not mistaken, of hearings in the Foreign Relations Committee.  While no unanimous prescription has emerged, there is remarkably broad consensus on three main points:  First, American troops cannot stop sectarian warfare in Iraq, only a political settlement can do that; the second point of consensus, we must engage in intensive regional diplomacy to support the settlement among Iraqis; third, the U.S. military should focus on combatting terrorists, keeping Iraq's neighbors honest, training Iraq's troops -- not on policing a civil war.  Indeed, combat troops should start to redeploy as soon as our mission is narrow.Those three points were overwhelmingly agreed upon by an array of the most well informed foreign policy experts, both military and civilian, that we have arrayed before that committee in a long time.Since a political settlement is so critical, we have examined this issue in detail.  We have looked at the benchmarks the President has proposed -- on oil law, debaathification reform, constitutional reform, and provincial elections -- but the divisions are so deep and passions run so high now in Iraq we may be beyond the point where such modest measures can stabilize Iraq.I believe, and have believed for some time, something much broader is necessary, something much bolder is necessary.  Les Gelb, the chairman emeritus of the Council on Foreign Relations and a former Defense Department official, and I put forward just such a proposal 9 months ago.  It is premised upon our conviction that the heart of the administration's strategy -- building a strong central government -- will, in fact, not succeed.  As a matter of fact, in the testimony we heard, most pointed out where countries have been drawn by the slip of a pen by world leaders after World War I and World War II -- the Balkans, Iraq, and many other places we could name -- there have basically only been two models that have brought stability.  A straw plan, a la Saddam, or a Federal system, a la the Iraqi Constitution.The reason a strong central government will not work, although desirable, is there is no trust within the Government, no trust of the Government by the people of Iraq, no capacity of the Government to deliver services, no capacity of this new Government to deliver security.  In a sense, it is understandable.  Indeed, we must bring Iraqis' problems and the responsibility of managing those problems down to local and regional levels where we can help the Iraqis build trust and capacity much more quickly and much more effectively.We have proposed that the Iraqis create what their constitution calls for: three or more "regions" they call them -- not republics -- three or four more regions consistent with their constitution.  We call for Iraq's oil to be shared equally with a guarantee that the Sunnis get their share and have some international oversight to guarantee it.  We call for aggressive diplomacy -- which, again, most every witness called for, including the Iraq Study Group -- we call for aggressive diplomacy in the creation of a contact group consisting of Iraqi's neighbors and the major powers in the world, including large Islamic countries to support a political settlement.We believe we can redeploy most, if not all, of America's troops from Iraq within 18 months under this plan, leaving behind a small force in Iraq or in the region to strike at terrorists, the jihadists, the al-Qaidaists, keeping the neighbors honest, and training Iraqi forces.  The time has demonstrated this plan is more relevant and inevitable than it was even the day we put pen to paper and set it out 9 months ago.  It takes into account the harsh reality of self-sustaining sectarian violence; it is consistent with Iraq's Constitution; and it can produce a phrase used by a New York Times columnist in describing our plan.  It can produce "a soft landing" for Iraq and prevent a full-blown civil war that tears the country apart and spreads beyond its borders.  I might also add, as people have come to understand, what I am calling for is not partitioning, not three separate republics; what I am calling for is what the Iraqi Constitution calls for: decentralization of control over security and local laws with the central government having responsibility for the Army, distribution of resources and currency and other things that a central government must do.As that has become clearer and clearer, some of the most powerful voices in the American foreign policy establishment have come forward to suggest it makes sense.Secretary Kissinger told our committee yesterday:  "I'm sympathetic to an outcome that permits large regional autonomy.  In fact, I think it is very likely this will emerge out of the conflict that we are now witnessing."Former Secretary of State Albright said:  "..the idea of the... constitution of Iraq as written, which allows for and mandates, in fact, a great deal of regional autonomy, is appropriate."Senator Baker, former Secretary of State, coauthor of the Baker-Hamilton commission report told us that there are indications that Iraq may be moving toward three autonomous regions, and "if it is, we ought to be prepared to try and manage the situation."Time is running out.  We are going to have as a consequence of the compromise reached between the Biden-Levin resolution and the Warner resolution, now known as the "Levin-Warner whoever else is attached to it" resolution -- we are going to have for the first time a full-blown debate in the Senate. I hope the administration will be listening.  I suggest we are coequal -- Congress, along with the President -- in deciding when, if, how long, and under what circumstances to send Americans to war, for shedding America's treasure and blood.  I suggest the absence of a quorum. 