
            	Biden Calls for More Oversight on Walter Reed Hospital; Better Services and Treatment for Wounded Soldiers
             March 1, 2007 
 Washington, DC - Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee Joseph R. Biden, Jr. (D-DE) is an original cosponsor of the Dignity for Wounded Warriors Act (S. 713), legislation introduced this week that will ensure wounded service members receive the treatment, care and services they deserve.    We have a sacred obligation to care for those we send into battle said Senator Biden. To have service members and their families living in such conditions is wrong and contrary to everything Americans value. As a former patient of Walter Reed, I know the unique challenges it faces but I was appalled to learn our soldiers were living this way.  It is utterly inexcusable and we must ensure it never happens again. This legislation is the first step in fixing a broken outpatient and disability evaluation system.  This legislation - cosponsored with bill authors Senators Obama and McCaskill and 20 other Senators - will require improved facilities and robust inspections; reduce paperwork and eliminate red tape for recovering service members; provide improved counseling services for service members and their families; and improve support for families of recovering service members.  The bill also provides for a Wounded Warrior Oversight Group to monitor the progress and make certain that our recovering service members receive the highest quality of care possible. Sen. Biden also called on the Secretary of Defense Robert Gates last week to immediately move affected soldiers and their families into suitable quarters at Walter Reed or, if necessary, outside the hospital; ensure that case managers have contact with patients at least twice a week so that no one is lost in the system; and improve the training of case workers. Specifically the Dignity for Wounded Warriors Act will:  Ensure Safe, Clean Housing:   The Washington Post revealed unacceptable living conditions for many outpatients at Walter Reed Army Medical Center, the flagship military hospital, including moldy walls, broken elevators, and general disrepair in recovering service member barracks. The Dignity for Wounded Warriors Act:   