
            	Senator Biden on Larry King Live
             August 2, 2006 
 SHOW: CNN LARRY KING LIVE 9:00 PM EST      Larry KING: Let's go to Wilmington, Delaware, Senator Joe Biden, Democrat of Delaware, member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, a possible presidential candidate. Still no ceasefire, your Senate colleague Republican Chuck Hagel called for a ceasefire the other day and said it's time to stop the slaughter. What do you make of that?   SEN. JOE BIDEN (D), DELAWARE: Well, I think we should have a ceasefire as soon as we can, Larry, but we can't let things go back to the status quo ante. The ceasefire has to include a stabilization force that is a force that will be along the Israeli border to keep Hezbollah from just renewing exactly what it's been doing.   And so, I think we can do that. I think the president should appoint a special envoy. He should appoint former Secretary Baker or former President Clinton to be the envoy to negotiate that arrangement. I think it's doable. But just having Israel stop with no implementation of any force to protect Israel from Hezbollah just reconstituting and doing it again I don't think is an answer for Israel and I don't think it's an answer we'd accept as a nation.   KING: Should the administration talk to Syria and Iran?      BIDEN: I think the administration should be prepared to talk to everybody. Talking is not a sign of weakness. As a matter of fact, I don't think talking to Iran would be much good here but I think talking to Syria would, in fact -- has a potential to produce the beginnings of a solution here.   And I do not mean bringing Syria forces back into Lebanon. Syria has been isolated as it deserves to be but Syria has turned to Iran. Iran is no long-term friend of Syria.   There may be the makings of a way in which they could cut off support for Hezbollah and return for -- then joining in a more responsible course of action. I don't know that to be the case but I wouldn't be afraid to talk to them.   KING: With Iraq, with Israel, with Iran, with this war would you call the administration's Mid East policy a failure?      BIDEN: I think it's an absolute failure and let me explain what I mean by that. God love the president. He's trying as hard as he can now to put the pieces back together but look at the position we're in.   There is no credible threat in the eyes of Tehran, little credible threat in the eyes of the folks in Damascus, in Syria that somehow we are going to be able to take them on because they know we're bleeding in Iraq.   And, on top of that, here we had a deal where the United Nations, led by France and the United States, said Get Syria out of Lebanon a year ago. That was part one.   The other two parts, as you know Larry, were the international community was supposed to disarm Hezbollah and help train the Lebanese Army and move the Lebanese Army into the area, the vacuum left by Syria when they pulled out. Everyone knew if someone didn't fill that vacuum Hezbollah would and we sat on our hands for a year. So, I do think the policy has been a failure. It needs a dramatic change.   KING: Senator, Israel has been at war with its neighbors I guess 58 years now. Is this solvable?      BIDEN: It is solvable in my view, Larry, but what it takes it takes some real serious leadership. Look, there was an opportunity here at the beginning of this encounter with Hezbollah to unite the Arab world, who the vast majority of the Arab world is Sunni. The vast majority of the Arab world is scared to death of Hezbollah. They view them as an agent of Iran, who are Shia, and they believe are their enemy.   You had Europe worried about Hezbollah thinking it's a real danger. And, we wait so long to try to put together the pieces, we always end up behind the 8-ball. There was an opportunity. I believe there's still an opportunity. But I think it takes more than the secretary of state, God love her. She's in there and out. She's good but she has so many problems on her plate.   A very high level envoy should be appointed by the president of the United States to get the Sunni nations, led by Saudi Arabia and others, to put pressure on Syria to cease and desist and organize NATO to bring in a force that does not include Americans led by the French as a stabilizing agent and begin to build out from there. It is possible but I'm not sure this administration has the wherewithal to do that.   KING: Thanks, Senator, always good speaking with you. We'll be calling on you a lot more again, Senator Joe Biden, Democrat of Delaware, member of the Foreign Relations Committee.   END   