
            	Sen. Biden: National Intelligence Estimate is Devastating Repudiation of the President's Strategy in Iraq
             February 2, 2007 
  WASHINGTON, DC  The National Intelligence Estimate  a consensus report of all U.S. intelligence agencies  on Iraq was released today which warned that Iraq could further deteriorate in the next 18 months, cautioned that the ability of the United States to control events on the ground could increasingly diminish and described key elements of the conflict as a civil war.   The National Intelligence Estimate (NIE) is a devastating repudiation of the Presidents new tactics in Iraq said Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee Joseph R. Biden, Jr.  It plainly shows the current strategy isnt working and that there is a dire need for a political settlement to give breathing room to the Sunnis, Shia and Kurds.  Without it, Iraq will slide into further chaos and violence.   The NIE makes clear the need for a political settlement in Iraq as called for by Senator Biden and president emeritus of the Council on Foreign Relations Leslie H. Gelb in May 2006.  The NIE identifies developments that could reverse the negative trends driving Iraqs current trajectory, including: broader Sunni acceptance of the current political structure and federalism and significant concessions by Shia and Kurds to create space for Sunni acceptance of federalism.  These elements are central to the Biden-Gelb plan for Iraq, which would keep Iraq together by creating three or more semi-autonomous regions, consistent with the Iraqi Constitution and guaranteeing Sunnis a fair share of oil revenues.  The NIE also undercuts the Presidents approach, which consists of a surge of U.S. forces into the middle of the civil war in Baghdad and encouraging Iraqis to achieve modest benchmarks they have repeatedly failed to meet, and which do not go far enough to end the sectarian civil war.  It states that Iraqis will be hard pressed to achieve sustained political reconciliation in the next 12 to 18 months, well beyond the planned duration of the Presidents surge, which is intended to create space for such a reconciliation.   The NIE underscores the urgent need for a regional diplomatic strategy that involves Iraqs neighbors in supporting a political settlement or containing the violence should reconciliation fail.   As bad as things are in Iraq, the National Intelligence Estimate warns they could get even worse, said Sen. Biden.  That is why we must pursue a political settlement as called for by the Biden-Gelb plan, initiate intensive regional diplomacy with all of Iraqs neighbors, and begin to redeploy our troops away from policing a self-sustaining sectarian civil war. For more details on the Biden-Gelb for Iraq, please visit:  http://biden.senate.gov/     