
            	BIDEN Issues Statement on the Administration's Decision to Sell Fighter Planes to Pakistan
             January 2, 2008 
 Washington, DC - Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee Senator Joseph R. Biden, Jr. (D-DE) todayissued a statement criticizing the Bush Administration's decision to sell F-16 fighter planes to Pakistan.  According to press reports, the Pentagon has awarded a $500 million contract to supply Pakistan with 18 F-16s.  The reports do not make clear whether the planes will be paid for by Pakistan, or by U.S. aid, or a combination of both.  If any U.S. aid is involved, the sale is illegal.  The recently passed Defense Appropriations bill bars any assistance to Pakistan for weapons sales that are not for counter-terrorism purposes.  The primary purpose of F-16s is to balance India, not to combat the Taliban or Al Qaeda.  If the sale involves no U.S. assistance, it is technically legal but fundamentally misguided.  Sen. Biden issued this statement:   "The decision to go ahead with a half-billion dollar sale of advanced fighter aircraft to Pakistan shows how dangerously misguided President Bush's policy is: How can the White House even think of green-lighting such a sale at such an incredibly sensitive time?  It sends exactly the wrong message to the Pakistani generals, and to the Pakistani people.  This is the time we should be putting the pressure on the government and military to fully investigate the assassination of Benazir Bhutto and to hold free and fair elections - not let them off the hook.     "The day after President Musharraf announced his State of Emergency, I publicly called for a possible suspension of big-ticket military sales like F-16s, and called Musharraf to warn him that his acts would have consequences.  Just before Christmas, Congress enacted legislation to prevent the Administration from taking exactly this sort of reckless action.  The Administration's decision is just plain wrong and should be reversed, immediately, until Pakistan returns clearly to the democratic path.  It is time once and for all to end the Bush Administration's Musharraf policy and replace it with the Pakistan policy I set out two months ago." 