
            	Biden Initiative Passes Senate: No Permanent Bases in Iraq
             August 3, 2006 
 Washington, DC  Today, the U.S. Senate passed an amendment introduced by U.S. Senator Joseph R. Biden, Jr. (D-DE) that would put the Senate on record as opposing permanent U.S. military bases in Iraq and U.S. control of the countrys natural resources. Bidens amendment was part of the FY07 Department of Defense Appropriations Bill, annual legislation that funds U.S. military activities around the world.    Although American military and political leadership in Baghdad has said that the United States does not have plans for permanent bases in Iraq, senior administration officials in Washington have sent mixed messages. There is no record of President Bush ever explicitly stating that his administration does not seek to establish permanent bases in Iraq. Earlier this year, Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld said that the United States had no plans at the present time to establish permanent bases and Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice refused to categorically state that permanent American bases would not be built at a recent hearing of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.    The Iraqi people remain suspicious of our intentions and are growing increasingly impatient, putting our men and women in uniform in greater danger, Biden said.    I have no illusions that a single amendment will somehow change the dynamic of events on the ground, he said. But I do believe that we have a duty to proclaim  and proclaim regularly -- that we have no intention of either maintaining permanent American military bases in Iraq or controlling its oil.    According to a recent University of Maryland poll, 80% of Iraqis (and 92% of Sunni Arabs in Iraq) believe that the U.S. intends to have a permanent military presence in their country, thereby contributing to the violence against American military personnel.    The DOD appropriations bill must now be reconciled with the version passed by the House of Representatives. Although Biden has successfully offered the amendment before, it has not yet been enacted into law. In May, the provision was accepted without debate on the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Bill, but it was subsequently removed by the Republican leadership in Conference. In June, it was again accepted to the Defense Authorization Bill, though that bill has not yet been through Conference.  