
            	BIDEN: We cannot afford another failing report card on homeland security
             August 3, 2007 
 Washington, DC - U.S. Senator Joseph R. Biden, Jr., Chairman of the Senator Foreign Relations Committee, issued the following statement this morning after President Bush signed the Implementing Recommendations of the 9/11 Commission Act of 2007 into law.  "At long last, we've taken a significant step towards implementing the recommendations of the bi-partisan 9/11 Commission.  While this legislation will make Americans much safer, we still have more work to do," said Sen. Biden.  "I will be working with my colleagues in the Senate to make sure that the Bush Administration implements these reforms as quickly as possible.  We cannot afford another failing report card on homeland security."  Sen. Biden served as a Senate member of the conference committee that negotiated the differences between the House and Senate versions of the bill.  The Implementing Recommendations of the 9/11 Commission Act of 2007 includes many provisions that Senator Biden has championed for years - including rail security enhancements, improved information sharing, restricting terrorists' entry into the United States, and enhanced interoperability for first responders to ensure they can save lives in the event of a terrorist attack or natural disaster.   The law includes provisions of Senator Biden's Rail Security Act, which increases Amtrak security by upgrading tunnels, hiring officers, and hardening soft targets.     "The bi-partisan 9/11 Commission gave us a blueprint for increasing the security of our homeland over three years ago.  With the passage of this legislation we have acted on the vast majority of their recommendations.  We should continue to work towards implementing all of those recommendations, and take the additional common sense steps, such as funding local police, protecting critical infrastructure, and securing nuclear material - that we know will make us safer," Sen. Biden added. The Implementing Recommendations of the 9/11 Commission Act also:  