
            	Senator Biden on ABC This Week
             September 3, 2006 
 SHOW: ABC This Week 9:01 AM EST ABC      GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS (ABC NEWS) Good morning, everyone. That series of Administration speeches this week is just the opening salvo in a political season likely to be dominated by the debate on national security. And we begin now with one of the leading Democrats on those issues, Senator Joe Biden. Welcome back to This Week, sir.   SENATOR JOE BIDEN (DEMOCRAT)      Good to be back, George. Thank you.       GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS (ABC NEWS)      (Off-camera) The Administration has labeled the enemy in this war 'Islamic fascists. And President Bush this week said that the 9/11 hijackers, the Hezbollah fighters in Lebanon, the car bombers in Baghdad all form a single movement.   PRESIDENT GEORGE W. BUSH (UNITED STATES)      And the unifying feature of this movement, the length that spans sectarian divisions and local grievances, is the rigid conviction that free societies are a threat to their twisted view of Islam.   GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS (ABC NEWS)      (Off-camera) Senator, is the enemy in this war a single movement of Islamic fascists?      SENATOR JOE BIDEN (DEMOCRAT)      I don't think so, George. Let me put it this way, there are - there are Islamic Jihadists. They are in sense united in that they're motivated by the same principles. But let's assume there was not a single Jihadist in the world, we still have a giant problem with North Korea, a giant problem with Iran, a civil war and a major war in Iraq. They are discernible. They're discreet. It requires different policies, different plans. And the American people are united, it seems to me, in understanding that they aren't a single threat. And the experts across the board are united in that a military solution - force is necessary but is not sufficient. We need political solutions. And so it's sad that - that no one in the Administration is speaking to what these solutions are.   GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS (ABC NEWS)      (Off-camera) A key part of the Administration argument of course is that Iraq is the central front in that war on terror. And they've been backed up on that by some pretty big guns, Osama bin Laden, Ayman al-Zawahiri.   SENATOR JOE BIDEN (DEMOCRAT)      Well, they've been backed up in the sense that - that it's clear since we went into Iraq, it has become a place where Jihadists are able to go, train and kill Americans. And, and start civil wars. But as I said, if there weren't a single solitary Jihadist in Iraq we still would have a major war on our hands there. It's not to suggest they don't overlap, they do, but they're not the totality of the problem in Iraq. And I don't know how anyone thinks - I don't know a single person, George, who thinks there is a total military solution in Iraq. There is a night for a political solution, as well. You've got to give the Sunnis a piece of the action here so they abandon their - their insurgency. You got to give - you got to do something with the militias so they don't become the Hezbollah of Iraq. I mean, there's a need for some political solutions here.   GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS (ABC NEWS)      (Off-camera) In their speech, both Vice President Cheney and Secretary Rumsfeld use versions of the A word, appeasement. And in his speech Secretary Rumsfeld said that Administration critics had not learned the lessons of World War I and World War II. What lessons do you think we should apply from World War I and World War II to this war we're fighting now?   SENATOR JOE BIDEN (DEMOCRAT)      I think we should look at this war. Let's take - only similarity I find, the defining similarity is this war is shortly going to have lasted as long as World War II, as long as World War II. Now, look, Secretary Rumsfeld asked the right questions a couple years ago. He, in one of his, you know, they're call snowflakes, one of the memorandum he sends to his key people in the Pentagon. He said are we creating more Jihadists or more terrorists than the Madrasses are training? I mean...   GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS (ABC NEWS)      (Off-camera) What's the answer?      SENATOR JOE BIDEN (DEMOCRAT)      Are we eliminating more? And the answer is no, we are not. And he said, do we need a comprehensive plan how to keep future generations from becoming Jihadists? The answer is yes. And the answer to both of those is that the military is not sufficient to do that. We need to use the totality of our power, George. We have to compete and we have to think ahead. I mean, look what's going on right now in - both Hamas and with Hezbollah. Everybody knew as soon as we pulled out of - the Syrians pulled out of Lebanon, the vacuum would be filled by Hezbollah. What did we do? We did nothing. Now Hezbollah looks like it's going to be the guardian angel and rebuild the homes with Iranian money of the people who got bombed out. What are we doing? We should be uniting the world so Hezbollah doesn't become the hero. We should have been supporting Abu Mazen so he has some reason to be able to win elections and have a - given them, as the President says, hope is the answer not fear. I mean, this Administration is very flat-footed. It's almost dysfunctional right now.   GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS (ABC NEWS)      (Off-camera) Several of your colleagues said that Secretary Rumsfeld was being very divisive in that speech. And Senator Barbara Boxer is actually going to have a vote of no confidence, try to engineer a vote of no confidence this week. Two questions. Did Secretary Rumsfeld go too far? And will you support the vote of no confidence?   SENATOR JOE BIDEN (DEMOCRAT)      Yes, he did go too far. He knows he went too far. That's why he sent a letter out after he made that speech.      GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS (ABC NEWS)      (Off-camera) But he said that he was misconstrued. He didn't apologize for what he said.      SENATOR JOE BIDEN (DEMOCRAT)      Well, no - well, let me put it this way. Let me put it - he knew whatever he said didn't go down well with the public at large. Let me just say that. And, and but I think he knew exactly what he was doing. And I think when you run out of ideas, what you do is you attack. I mean, look, what is the plan for Iraq? We're putting more - flooding more American troops into Baghdad. That is having some help - having some positive impact. What happens when those troops leave? What happens when they pull out? There is no political solution offered here. There's no plan this Administration has how to get the Sunnis to buy into this government, how to keep the neighbors out of a settlement and how to keep the - and how to decommission the militias. Without those things, George, there's no prospects of success in Iraq. What's the plan?   GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS (ABC NEWS)      (Off-camera) Will you support Senator Boxer's resolution of no confidence?      SENATOR JOE BIDEN (DEMOCRAT)      Oh, I'll probably support it, but, you know, as you know, I'm the first guy to call for the Secretary's resignation. I think on your show, a couple years ago. And it's not to be - because I want to be vindictive. He is an impediment in this effort. He is not someone who is offering answers. And the rest of the world looks at what he has to say and continues to lose confidence in our ability - excuse me, to act with some dispatch and success.   GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS (ABC NEWS)      (Off-camera) It's been - you know, this - sure looks like the midterm election is gonna be dominated by these national security questions. And I know you've been out there campaigning both for yourself and for a lot of other Democrats. This national security card worked for the Republicans in 2002. It apparently worked in 2004. How do Democrats prevent it from working in 2006?   SENATOR JOE BIDEN (DEMOCRAT)      George, the American people are pretty smart. The American people in the most recent polls show that they do not conflate terror in Iraq and safety in the streets. They know the 9/11 Commission has not been followed. They know we are still left extremely vulnerable in this country without the President willing to spend the money and to deal with the infrastructure concerns here. That plot that was foiled by the British and hopefully with our help, as well, what that showed was that, A, intelligence works but also, B, we still are pretty darn vulnerable at home and not much has been done. I think the American people are way ahead of both political parties here, George. And I think what's going to happen they'll look on the front page of the paper and on your program the Sunday before the election and determine whether we're making progress or not. And if we're not, all the rhetoric, all the - all the attacks by the Republicans are going to be to no avail in my view. But we'll see. I mean obviously I'm no - no expert on that.   GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS (ABC NEWS)      (Off-camera) Ken Mehlman, the Republican chairman, says the key question in the election is, are we at war? And if Americans believe that then Republicans will do okay. Do you agree?   SENATOR JOE BIDEN (DEMOCRAT)      I think the key question is not are we at war, are we winning this war? Are we safer today than we were five years ago? And what we're going to do to make us safer five years from now. And on that score I think the American people are beginning to see through the charade here. Here's a President who cut $2 billion over the last six years for just law enforcement on our streets. Here's a president that you have - you have Mr. Lehman on the 9/11 Commission, conservative Republican, former secretary of Navy under Mr. Reagan, saying 'if they think we're winning this war, they're wrong. We're not winning. We need a significant change in strategy. I don't know any experts out there, George, who - and I don't know any Americans out there who think this President has a comprehensive plan. Look, these guys, these terrorists are not nine feet - 20 feet tall. There are answers to deal with these problems we face. But, you know, this stuff about appeasers and, you know, we don't fight them in Baghdad we're going - we're going to fight them both places anyway. Whether we're in Baghdad or not, we fight them here. Whether we're gonna fight them here or not, we're gonna fight them in Baghdad. I mean, the American people are pretty smart, I think.   GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS (ABC NEWS)      (Off-camera) Senator, we only have a few seconds left. But I have to ask you, I looked at your schedule. You spent, I think, 13 or 14 days in Iowa during the month of August. From what you heard on the ground there, did they convince you to get in formally and really get into this presidential race?   SENATOR JOE BIDEN (DEMOCRAT)      Oh, I've gotten in. Let me put it this way, I didn't find anything to dissuade me from getting in. But interesting thing, George, you know Iowa. I spoke at over 40-some events in Iowa. A couple thousand people, I'm told, in all those small events. And the fact of the matter is, not one single question did I get on a social issue from a socially active group of Democrats. They all wanted to talk about national security, all wanted to talk about our place in the world, and they're all apprehensive like Republicans and Democrats I met out there. They're looking for answers. They're not looking for invective and it doesn't work just going out, picking on George Bush. They know he's gone in two years. The question is, what are we going to do to make America safer? And they're convinced this Administration doesn't have a plan.   GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS (ABC NEWS)      (Off-camera) And that debate is certainly going to continue. Senator Biden, thanks very much.      SENATOR JOE BIDEN (DEMOCRAT)      Thank you very much, George.      