
            	Biden Reiterates Dire Need for Homeland Security Improvements
             December 4, 2006 
 Washington, DC - On the eve of the one-year anniversary of the 9/11 Commission's report card, U.S. Senator Joseph Biden (D-DE), the senior Democrat on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, today announced his intention to again introduce legislation creating a Homeland Security Trust Fund to fully fund implementation of the 9/11 Commission recommendations.   On December 5, 2005, the bi-partisan 9/11 Commission issued a report card grading, among other things, our nation's homeland security emergency preparedness and response. For more details on the 9/11 Commission report card, please visit:http://www.9-11pdp.org/press/2005-12-05_report.pdf   A year after the 9/11 Commissioners issued a report card grading homeland security improvements since the attacks of September 11th - a report card riddled with D's and F's - the Republican-led Congress and the Bush Administration are still failing the American people, said Biden. Instead of shortchanging known terrorist targets like Washington DC and New York City, the real question we should be asking is: what does it take to make all of America safer?   We must reorder our priorities and focus on protecting the American people, said Biden. In 2006 alone, the Bush tax cuts for millionaires will exceed $60 billion. For that we could implement the 9/11 Commission recommendations and raise those failing grades.    As recently as September, Biden introduced legislation to create a Homeland Security Trust Fund to implement the Commissions recommendations. Sen. Biden's legislation would set aside $53.3 billion over the five years dedicated solely to investing in homeland security, and much of the funding would come from a partial rollback of the Bush tax cuts to people making over $1 million a year. Biden's initiative would free up $10 billion annually ($50 billion over five years) and would go toward:     * Implementing the recommendations of the 9/11 Commission;  * Hiring 50,000 new police officers and 1,000 FBI agents;     * Requiring 100 percent cargo container screening at our nation's sea ports;       * Ensuring that first responders can talk with each other by implementing strict interoperability standards, and providing them with equipment to allow them to communicate during emergencies;    * Spurring research, development and deployment of new screening technology at sea and air ports; and invest in our public health system to ensure capacity to respond to biological, chemical, radiological attacks or pandemics.    Precedent proves this can work, Sen. Biden said. In 1994, Sen. Biden created the Violent Crime Reduction Trust Fund in order to set aside government funding to fight local crime. The Violent Crime Trust Fund worked. With this dedicated funding, we put over 100,000 officers on the street and funded crime prevention programs reducing crime from historic highs to the lowest levels in a generation.    In November Americans cast their votes for a new direction on national security, said Biden. We should create a dedicated Homeland Security Trust Fund to ensure that we make the grade on homeland security without going in the red. I'm looking forward to working with my colleagues to make this a priority in the new Congress.  