
            	Biden Outlines Four Steps to Make America Safer
             October 4, 2006 
 Are we safer today than we were five years ago?   The facts speak for themselves. Each of the so-called axis of evil countries poses a greater threat now than it did then: Iraq is on the verge of chaos, Iran is closer to developing nuclear weapons and North Korea has 400 percent more fissile material.   The Administrations conviction that democracy can be imposed by force from the outside and its simplistic equation of democracy with elections has helped legitimize already militarized groups like Hezbollah and Hamas.   Five years ago President Bush pledged to capture Osama bin Laden. Today bin Laden remains at large. Our forces are struggling to keep Afghanistan from unraveling. There is no strategy to capture, kill or dissuade more terrorists than our enemies are creating. We know from Katrina and the failing grades issued by the 9/11 Commission that we are not sufficiently secure at home. This Administration has failed to implement all of the 9/11 recommendations and slashed support for local law enforcement and first responders.   The Administration continues to conflate under one label  the war on terrorism -- very disparate challenges from very different groups and countries and to use the same limited set of tools  military force and regime change  to fight them. We must refocus America on the most lethal threat: the possibility radical fundamentalists will acquire weapons of mass destruction and develop strategies for success in Iraq and Afghanistan. That will give America more freedom, flexibility and credibility to engage other challenges, including outlaw states that flout the rules, violence in the Middle East, the struggle for the hearts and minds of tens of millions of Muslims, the emergence of China and India, and energy and environmental security.   To make this country safer, we must recapture the totality of Americas strength  wielding our political, diplomatic, economic and moral might, together with our military power. Senator Biden would:  	Create a homeland security trust fund to implement all the 9/11 Commission recommendations and invest in local law enforcement  1. Create Homeland Security Trust Fund The Bush tax cuts for millionaires exceed $60 billion this year alone. Senator Biden would take back some of the tax cuts for people making over a million dollars a year in order to put $10 billion a year ($50 billion over 5 years) into a Homeland Security Trust Fund to:  	Immediately implement the recommendations of the 9/11 Commission  2. Intercept Threats Abroad Real security comes from prevention  not preemption. Threats must be defused before they reach the U.S., especially the possibility radical fundamentalists will acquire weapons of mass destruction. Senator Biden would:   Expand programs to destroy loose weapons of mass destruction and dangerous materials in the former Soviet Union and extend them to other countries  3. Restore Partnerships And Build Effective Alliances Instead of alienating them, the U.S. must work with strong partners and build effective alliances. Taking on the radical fundamentalists alone isnt necessary, it isnt smart and it wont work.  Forge new international alliances of law enforcement, intelligence, and financial officials to uproot terrorists and end their funding  4. Advance Democracy, Bolster Failing States, Win the War of Ideas America must engage and win the war of ideas between freedom and radical fundamentalism, proving to millions of people who are politically and economically disenfranchised that we offer hope while our adversaries offer only hatred. Democracy is an antidote to extremism, but it cannot be imposed by force and cannot stop at elections. We also must build democratic institutions and bolster failing states, which can become havens for terror. Sen. Biden would: * * *  