
            	Biden Helps Unveil 2006 "Watch List"To Combat Theft of American Intellectual Property
             April 5, 2006 
 WASHINGTON, DC  In an effort to protect American innovation, ideas and jobs, U.S. Senator Joe Biden (D-DE) today joined with fellow lawmakers and leaders in the entertainment and technology industries in unveiling the 2006 priority watch list of the Congressional International Anti-Piracy Caucus (IAPC). The watch list identifies China and Russia as high-priority countries and includes Mexico, Canada, India and Malaysia as priority countries that also need stronger copyright protections.   American innovation and creativity need to be protected by our government no less than our personal property, our homes and our streets. Theft of intellectual property is a crime, pure and simple, said Biden. It costs our economy over $15 billion every year and results in over $1 billion of lost tax revenues. That is money that could be used to hire an additional 13,000 local police officers to patrol our streets, or provide interoperable communications equipment for our 30 largest cities, to help prevent the next 9/11 or respond to the next Katrina.   China and Russia were singled out because of the scope and depth of their piracy problems, which cost the U.S. businesses and the millions of Americans who work for them $4 billion in 2005 alone; and because piracy in these countries is largely the result of a lack of political will to confront the problem.   It is important that we do all we can to ensure high-tech pirates are shut down in this country and find no safe haven to operate in other nations, said Biden, who is the top Democrat on the Foreign Relations Committee. Intellectual property is an immensely valuable national resource. Failing to protect it would be like letting coal be stolen from our mines, or water taken from our rivers.   Senator Biden, who is a founding member of the IAPC, also cosponsored a resolution - introduced today - urging the six countries on the list to make progress to improve intellectual property protection.   Intellectual property constitutes the largest single sector of the American economy, representing 6% of the gross domestic product. But piracy of American intellectual property has cost our economy over 150,000 jobs in the last year alone. The IAPC is dedicated to working with our international trade partners to secure the enactment of strong copyright laws and the vigilant enforcement of those laws.   America is a place where we encourage diverse ideas, and with that encouragement we must protect those ideas. This issue is really about fighting crime, protecting property, saving money, saving jobs, and promoting free and fair trade, concluded Biden.   The Congressional International Anti-Piracy Caucus was founded in 2003 to advocate for stricter international copyright laws. The caucus, which currently has over 70 members, is co-chaired by Senators Gordon Smith (R-OR) and Joseph Biden (D-DE), and Representatives Bob Goodlatte (R-VA) and Adam Schiff (D-CA).  