
            	ABC's This Week with George Stephanopoulos
             December 5, 2005 
 This is a partial transcript of ABC's THIS WEEK WITH GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS from December 5, 2004. GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS, Host:  And we're back now with Senator Joseph Biden, the ranking Democrat on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.  He's in Wilmington, Delaware, this morning, but just back from Baghdad in the Middle East this week.  Welcome back, Senator Biden. U.S. SEN. JOE BIDEN (D-DE):  Good to be back. STEPHANOPOULOS:  You know, one of your colleagues on the trip, Senator Chuck Hagel from Nebraska, said he didn't meet a single commander in Iraq who said, We're winning this war.  Is that your impression as well? BIDEN:  That's clearly my impression.  And we met with the battlefield commanders in Fallujah.  We went to Fallujah.  We -- look, George, we still have the same problem.  We are unable to secure our victories.  When we've won everything we've tried to do, including Fallujah, but then we've lacked the resources to secure what we've won.And we're still paying an awesome price for the initial failures on policy and refusal to change them of this administration, of going in with too little power and with too little legitimacy.  It's agigantic price we're still paying. STEPHANOPOULOS:  Well, now 12,000 more troops are on the way.  By January we'll be up to about 150,000.  And I'm wondering if you believe that's going to be enough.  We've gone, over the course of this year, from about 115,000 troops to now about 150,000.  But the number of attacks has gone from about 400 a month to 2,400 a month.  Is 12,000 troops enough to beat that back? BIDEN:  It's necessary, but not enough, George.  You may remember, just prior to the campaign, I told you this is exactly what was going to happen.  And I got pilloried by my Republican colleagues and others, some columnists, for saying that this administration would, after the election, before the election in Iraq, increase the number of forces by having overlapping forces, those rotating in coming a little earlier, and those that are supposed to go out having to stay longer.The problem was, George, that we should have never drawn down to 115 troops in the first place.  What happens is, when we make -- when we have a victory, and we've had many, what we do is, we pull back.  We don't continue to increase what we've already had there in order toget it done, whether it's training of Iraqi forces or securing the ground we've actually conquered.And my worry is, the administration's going to repeat this again.  We're going to -- one senior general actually told me that he -- I said, You're going to have to keep 150,000 here now, aren't you, on balance for the rest of the year?  He said, Well, we'll see after the election. You know what they're going to do.  I predict to you, and I'll probably get killed for saying this, but what's going to happen is, they're going to keep 150,000 troops there through the election in the end of January.  God willing, that will go well enough to be considered to be a legitimate election.  And then you're going to see them start to draw down again.  And... STEPHANOPOULOS:  Except that, let me stop you right there, because President al-Yawar is in the United States this weekend, and he is saying today that this transition process is going to go far beyond the election, and the security problem will last far beyond the election. BIDEN:  Oh, it will.  And by the way, every one of our -- I mean, I won't mention the general, the combat general, waited till my -- the Black Hawk helicopters were in, were whirling, there was a lot of noise, I'm about to get on the aircraft.  And he runs up and he said -- because I was very tough with those battlefield commanders, asking them hard questions about what they really needed.And they were in a tough spot, because there were a whole lot of people in that room.  And this particular commander ran up to me, grabbed me by the arm, under the noise of the helicopter propellers, and yelled to me, through my earpiece, he said, Senator, he said, you're barking up the right tree.  For God's sake, keep barking for us.The fact of the matter is, every one of them say, every single solitary commander in the region says, and noncom says, We've got to stay here for a long time, in significant numbers, spending billions of dollars, to get this done.And it's about time we level with the American people and tell them the truth. STEPHANOPOULOS:  Bring us in that room a little bit more.  You say you're asking them hard questions.  What kind of questions are you posing to the battlefield commanders right now, and what are they telling you? BIDEN:  Well, I'm not going to tell you what they're telling me, because I don't want to (inaudible), I'll be (inaudible) down.In those closed rooms, I say, Look, fellas, you did a great job here.  Now tell us, how many of these insurgents do you think got out of Fallujah before you went in?  How many that escaped after you went in?  How many of them have laid down their arms?  Or where have theygone?  How many more cities now are there going to be similar uprisings?  Do you have enough force to be able to lock down Fallujah, bring people back, and at the same time, go to other cities within the province? -- which they put up on a board and named.They'll go, now, look, Senator, here are the five other cities surrounding this particular area where these guys have gone.  Now, do you have enough troops to cap this, keep this under control, so that when you leave it doesn't fill up again, and go pick up each of those other cities? And then I go into great detail about it, because this is my fourth trip back.  I've been doing nothing but this for the last -- doesn't make me an expert, but I've been doing nothing but this forthe last two years, basically.And they look at you, and they basically don't want to say out loud in front of everyone, no, we can't do it.  But when we walk out -- they don't say they can.  They don't say they can.  They say, they talk about the young warriors that are there.  And they are incredible warriors.  These guys really are.You know what they wanted to talk to me about, George, all of us about, in that very room, in that battlefield room?  They wanted to talk to us about how they had to protect citizens coming back in, how they had to quickly begin to rebuild the city, what they had to do to do that, how they needed outside help, how they needed more input from the civilian side.I mean, these are not only warriors, these are humanitarians. STEPHANOPOULOS:  And one of the other things they must be talking about, Senator, is the prospect of a civil war.  One of the things we've seen this week in increasingly targeted attacks, Sunnis against Kurds, Sunnis and Shiites battling again south of Baghdad.Coming away from Baghdad this week, are you more concerned about the outbreak of a civil war? BIDEN:  I'm less concerned about an outbreak of a civil war than I am about the outbreak of civil chaos.  Less Kurd on Sunni and Sunni on Shia, I am concerned that this insurgency, 90 percent of which they tell us is internal.  It is not Al Qaida and outside, foreign influences who are a problem.  Ninety percent of it is homegrown insurgency.They laid out for us that the former Baathist generals and former Baathist officers are now coordinating in their efforts to drive the country into chaos, because the last thing they want is they want an election that goes off that has legitimacy.I'm not as concerned, George, about you're going to have a civil war.  I'm concerned that you will have civil chaos and that the conclusion will be reached, there's no possibility of self-governancebecause there's no way to secure the area.  And then you may ensue, after that, this idea of Shia versus Sunni, Sunni versus Kurd. STEPHANOPOULOS:  And do you believe that that chaos is going to prevent the elections from taking place on January 30th? BIDEN:  I think it's going -- it has close to an even chance of preventing it from taking place within the so-called Sunni Triangle.  We still have the ability.  Success is still possibility.  But it is receding rapidly.  It's being made much more difficult.And anybody who tells you, like we were told just prior to the November election, that Iraq is more secure, that is simply not true, not true.  My fourth trip there; every single time we've gone, the security has been ratcheted up considerably more.  We cannot go places we could go before.  More people are being killed.  Look at the number of American casualties since we were told things have gotten better.  With the exception of one month, they have spiked way up.  Everymonth, on average, we've gone up with more casualties, not only American casualties but casualties in the region.And look, we just have to level with the American people.  This is going to be incredibly painful. STEPHANOPOULOS:  You say we have to level with the American people, but do we have the right strategy?  Because it sounds like, from what... BIDEN:  No.  No.  And the reason we don't have the right strategy is we're unwilling to level with them.  The president of the United States should've said six months ago or a year ago, Look, folks, we've got to spend more money and send more troops.  We've got to get more people in there quickly so we can get out more rapidly.For example, General Petraeus, first-rate guy, now in charge of training.  Try to get a hold of him some day and ask him whether or not the criticisms when I was on your program last time when Senator Lindsey Graham, a Republican, and Tom Daschle, a Democrat, and I came back and we said the training program for Iraqi police is ridiculous.  It's a joke, absolute joke.The administration was advertising and the secretary of defense said we had trained 120,000 Iraqi forces.  They say now we have 90,000 Iraqi forces trained.  Not true.  They are in uniform.  Most of them haven't been trained at all. STEPHANOPOULOS:  Well, Senator, I would actually love to get them on the program, and thank you for suggesting.  We'll try again. BIDEN:  You know what I mean.  I mean, it's frustrating. STEPHANOPOULOS:  I do.  No, no.  We're going to try again.And I want to have you back to talk about the Middle East, but I'm afraid that's all we have time for today.Senator Biden, thank you very much. BIDEN:  The Middle East is hopeful.  There's hope there. STEPHANOPOULOS:  Good. BIDEN:  Thank you. To visit ABC's This Week web page, go to:  ABCNews.com 