
            	President Signs Biden's Violence Against Women Act of 2005 Into Law
             January 5, 2006 
 Please see below for a summary and detailed section by section of the bill.  WASHINGTON, DC -- President Bush today signed into law U.S. Senator Joe Biden's (D-DE) Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) of 2005. The legislation increases funding for women's shelters and law enforcement training and also focuses on other crucial aspects of domestic violence and sexual assault, such as treating children impacted by violence, enhancing health care for rape victims, holding repeat offenders and high-tech stalkers accountable, and easing housing problems for battered women.   The new law also includes key provisions authored by Senator Biden to combat crime, protect kids, improve drug courts and put more cops on the beat.   Senator Biden, author of the original Violence Against Women Act of 1994 and VAWA 2000 called the bill signing a major victory and added this new law is crucial to ensuring the safety and security of Americans.   Senators Biden, Arlen Specter (R-PA), and Orrin Hatch (R-UT), co-authored The Violence Against Women Act of 2005. The bill provides $795 million a year to continue funding several successful programs for training, education and outreach so that state and federal agencies can do a better job of preventing violence against women and assisting victims of domestic violence. It also stiffens penalties for repeat abusers and focuses on breaking the cycle of violence through education and helping rural victims in under served areas.   This is a comprehensive law that strikes the right balance between rejuvenating core programs, making targeted improvements and responsibly expanding the Violence Against Women Act to reach the needs of America's families, said Biden. The Violence Against Women Act of 2005 provides cities and towns with the tools they need to combat domestic violence, assist victims and go after abusers when it occurs.   Biden's original Violence Against Women Act established new federal crimes for domestic violence, sexual assault, and stalking. The law also created the National Domestic Violence Hotline (1 800 799 SAFE), which has answered over 1 million calls and helped train police, prosecutors and court officials to more effectively treat victims of domestic abuse and sexual assault.   VAWA grants also support local Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner (SANE) programs, which train registered nurses to conduct sexual assault forensic exams. It also enhanced protection for battered immigrants and helped raise public awareness about a long hidden epidemic in this country.   In addition to renewing VAWA, the new measure extends and improves several important and effective Justice Department programs authored by Senator Biden, including the drug court program and drug treatment for prisoners in state and federal prisons, to treat addiction among offenders to reduce recidivism.   The legislation reauthorizes the Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) Program for four years in the amount of $1.05 billion per year. The COPS program, which was created by the landmark 1994 Biden Crime Bill has been hailed as a miraculous success by the Attorney General of the United States and is strongly supported by state and local law enforcement officials throughout the nation. A recent study by the Government Accountability Office statistically concluded what these experts have known all along: the COPS program helps to reduce crime.   This bill improves the COPS program by providing more flexibility for state and local law enforcement agencies applying for federal grants, noted Biden. This will help ensure that they have the resources to meet the challenge of ensuring the safety of American citizens from crime and terrorism.   Also included in the final package is Senator Biden's provision to extend the Child Safety Pilot Program for an additional 30 month period. This program, which Biden helped create through The PROTECT Act of 2003, makes nationwide FBI fingerprint background checks accessible to youth serving organizations at a reasonable cost and with quick turnaround time. The Child Safety Pilot Program has prevented thousands of sex offenders and other criminals from working with children, and Senator Biden's legislation will ensure it continues to function beyond the original expiration date of February 1, 2006.   SUMMARY: The Violence Against Women Act of 2005  The bipartisan Violence Against Women Act of 2005 takes the ground-breaking Act of 1994 to the next level. It not only renews existing, fundamental programs, but also focuses on other crucial aspects of domestic violence and sexual assault, such as treating children impacted by the violence, enhancing health care for rape victims, holding repeat offenders and high tech stalkers accountable, and easing housing problems for battered women. The bill is a comprehensive measure that strikes the right balance between rejuvenating core programs, making targeted improvements, and responsibly expanding the Violence Against Women Act to reach the needs of Americas families.   	Major components of Title I on the criminal justice system include provisions to: (1) renew and increase funding to over $400 million a year for existing fundamental grant programs for law enforcement, lawyers, judges and advocates; (2) stiffen existing criminal penalties for repeat federal domestic violence offenders; and (3) appropriately update the criminal law on stalking to incorporate new surveillance technology like Global Positioning Systems (GPS).   Title II on critical victim services will: (1) create a new, dedicated grant program for sexual assault victims that will strengthen the 1,300 rape crisis centers across the country; (2) reinvigorate programs to help older and disabled victims of domestic violence; (3) strengthen and expand existing programs for rural victims and victims in underserved areas; and (4) removes a current cap on funding for the National Domestic Violence Hotline.   Reports indicate that up to ten million children experience domestic violence in their homes each year. Treating children who witness domestic violence, dealing effectively with violent teenage relationships and teaching prevention strategies to children are keys to ending the cycle of violence. Title III on youth and children includes measures to: (1) promote collaboration between domestic violence experts and child welfare agencies; and (2) enhance to $15 million a year grants to reduce violence against women on college campuses.   Title IV aimed at prevention strategies includes programs supporting home visitations and specifically engaging men and boys in efforts to end domestic and sexual violence.   Doctors and nurses, like police officers on the beat, are often the first witnesses of the devastating aftermath of abuse. As first responders, they must be fully engaged in the effort to end the violence and possess the tools they need to faithfully screen, treat and study family violence. Title V strengthens the health care systems response to family violence with programs to train and educate health care professionals on domestic and sexual violence, foster family violence screening for patients, and more studies on the health ramifications of family violence.   In some instances, women face the untenable choice of returning to their abuser or becoming homeless. Indeed, 44% of the nations mayors identified domestic violence as a primary cause of homelessness. Efforts to ease the housing problems for battered women are contained in Title VI, including (1) $20 million grant programs to facilitate collaboration between domestic violence organizations and housing providers; (2) programs to combat family violence in public and assisted housing, including new requirements that domestic violence victims may not be evicted or cut off from voucher services because of the violence; and (3) enhancements to transitional housing resources.   Title VII helps abused women maintain economic security by establishing a national resource center to provide information to employers and labor organizations so that they may effectively help their employees who are victims of domestic violence.   Title VIII improves and expands the immigration protections for battered women. It would also ensure that victims of trafficking are supported with new measures such as expanding the duration of a T-visa, and providing resources to victims who assist in investigations or prosecutions of trafficking cases brought by state or federal authorities. Additionally, a section combats the violent abuse of foreign women by U.S. husbands they have met through international marriage brokers. This section bars brokers from recruiting and profiling girls under the age of 18, and instructs them to tell the foreign fiance about any violent criminal history of her U.S. fianc and advise her about the rights and resources available to victims of domestic violence in the U.S.   	In an effort to focus more closely on violence against Indian women, Title IX creates a new tribal Deputy Director in the Office on Violence Against Women dedicated to coordinating federal policy and tribal grants. It also authorizes the Office to pool funds available to tribes and tribal organizations in various VAWA programs. In addition, Title IX authorizes tribal governments to access and upload domestic violence and protection order data on criminal databases, as well as create tribal sex offender registries, and strengthens available criminal penalties.   Title X expands the scope of the national DNA database to include DNA samples submitted by arrestees.      For more information, please click here to view a detailed section-by-section summary of H.R. 3402, the Violence Against Women and Department of Justice Appropriations Reauthorization Act of 2005.  