
            	ABCs This Week With George Stephanopoulos
             June 5, 2005 
 This is a partial transcript of ABCs THIS WEEK WITH GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS from June 5, 2005.   GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS, Host: Good morning, everyone. There is news out of Iraq today, word that Saddam Hussein may face trial as early as this summer.   An Iraqi government spokesman announced that Saddam could face up to 500 charges at the tribunal, but that he will be tried on only 12. Prosecuting all the charges, he says, would be a waste of time.   Also in Iraq, American marines have discovered an elaborate series of underground bunkers recently used by the insurgents. The rebel hideout was found in central Iraq, north of the town of Karma.   The weapons stored in the massive facility included mortars, artillery shells and rockets. Marines also found a kitchen, fresh food, showers and even a working air conditioner.   This all comes after a month when 700 Iraqis and 80 American soldiers were killed in Iraq. But in the face of this persistent violence, President Bush is still optimistic.   (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)      GEORGE W. BUSH, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:      I'm pleased with the progress. I am pleased that in less than a year's time there's a democratically elected government in Iraq. There are thousands of Iraqi soldiers trained and better equipped to fight for their own country, that our strategy is very clear.   (END VIDEO CLIP)      STEPHANOPOULOS: Which brings us to our headliner, Senator Joseph.  Good morning, Senator.      U.S. SENATOR JOE BIDEN (D-DE): Good morning, how are you, George?      STEPHANOPOULOS:  I'm doing very well, thank you.      You just heard the president there. He said we're making real progress and we have a clear strategy. Is that what you found in Iraq this week?   BIDEN: Well, not exactly. We're making some progress and we have a spotty strategy.      We've squandered over a year and a half in the way we trained Iraqi troops, the failure to move the way that the military on the ground was suggesting.   And the bottom line is there are very few -- there's 107 battalions that have been trained out there and in uniform, but only three -- three -- are fully operational and 23 are close to operational.   So the bottom line is it's going to be two years roughly before we have enough Iraqi forces that can actually begin to supplant American forces.   And overall, George, this same message -- it's my fifth trip to Iraq -- same message privately on the ground: we didn't have enough troops to begin with, we don't have enough troops now and the only hope now is to train up Iraqis as quickly as possible and that's the problem.   STEPHANOPOULOS: Senator, we must have had this conversation half a dozen times over the last year...      BIDEN: We have.      STEPHANOPOULOS: ...and every time you come back with exactly the same message. What can we do right now to speed up this training?   BIDEN: Well, we're on track now. General Petraeus is actually moving the way you need to move. There are two Iraqi generals that are serious people. They're engaged in the training. It's moving forward.   The point is, it was going to take roughly two years from the start and the problem was, we waited a year and a half to start. And so there is some progress made.   There are three of these battalions that are prepared to act on their own without the United States. There's 27 that we can back up and they can get something done. But all the rest are a long way off.   It will get done but it's a race for time. And while this is going on, George, people lose confidence in Iraq.      STEPHANOPOULOS: And you're seeing that also in the Congress. Several of your colleagues are about to introduce a resolution calling for a complete withdrawal of American troops...   BIDEN:  That would be a big mistake.      STEPHANOPOULOS: Well, that's what I was going to ask you. Why would that be a big mistake? They say this would be the only way...   BIDEN: Big mistake.      STEPHANOPOULOS: ...to put pressure on the Iraqis to train their own forces.      BIDEN: It's not the Iraqis training. They can't train their own forces. We, under the president's proposal, the secretary of defense, we made a giant mistake in the beginning over the objection of a number of us in both parties. We totally decommissioned the entire army, the entire military in Iraq, the so-called de-Baathification. And we were left with nothing.   The Iraqis -- it's bizarre to suggest the Iraqis can train themselves. They cannot. They have the capability of being trained. They have the capability of defending their own country. But it's going to take time. And if we leave now, I guarantee you, there will be a civil war...   STEPHANOPOULOS:  But Senator...      BIDEN: ...which a lot of our folks are worrying about now anyway.      STEPHANOPOULOS: Even some of your colleagues who you've been in sync with over the course of the Iraq war, people like Chuck Hagel and Carl Levin, they were on my program a couple of weeks ago. And they said if Iraq is effectively training its forces and completed a constitution by the beginning of next year, then we do have to rethink our strategy, and we do have to think about withdrawing forces.   BIDEN: Well, I think that's true. I think the -- look, as I've said, I think not long ago on your program, by the end of 2006, we're going to have drawn-down forces, because the Iraqis are more capable, well, we're going to have drawn-down forces because they're incapable. It's not going to be the same. The American public's not going to stand for 135,000 troops there a year and a half from now.   But let's get it straight. The Iraqis are not capable of training their own forces. They're ready, they're willing, they're waiting, and we are in the process of training them. But now, for the first time, we're doing it in a very serious, serious way.   We have to stop misleading the American public so we don't lose their confidence. Tell them it's going to take more time. Tell them it's able to be done, but tell them the truth.   STEPHANOPOULOS: You think President Bush is misleading...      BIDEN: We're not telling the truth.      STEPHANOPOULOS:  ...the American public?      BIDEN: I think he clearly is. Well, let me be more precise. The secretary of defense absolutely is. Continuing to say we have 157,000 or 163, the numbers change, trained Iraqi troops. When I say that, when they hear that in my home state, they say, Hey, Joe, why are you still keeping 135,000 Americans there if you have these Iraqi troops trained?   And so I think we have to have a little patience. It can work, but the hard part's coming now, George. They've got to write a constitution. They've got to integrate Sunnis into the process. They've got to then have an election. This is the real tough stuff coming up now.   STEPHANOPOULOS: Let me turn now to the other big debate that's going to be coming up in the senate when you get back this week, John Bolton. You joined several other Democrats filibustering his nomination because you wanted more documents to be released by the administration.   I want to show you what President Bush said in the Rose Garden this week about that. He made it very, very clear he's not going to budge.   (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)      GEORGE W. BUSH, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: I view that as just another stall tactic, another way to delay, another way to now allow Bolton to get an up or down vote. We've answered questions after questions after questions. Documents were sent to the Intelligence Committee. The Intelligence Committee reviewed the NSA intercept process and confirmed that, you know, Bolton did what was right.   (END VIDEO CLIP)      STEPHANOPOULOS:  You heard the president. What's your response?      BIDEN: Simply not true. The president -- the Intelligence Committee did not confirm Bolton did what was right. The Intelligence Committee did not get the information that was requested by Senator Lugar and me.   But the bottom line here is the president can probably stiff us. The president can probably refuse to give us this information, which we're completely entitled to as the United States Senate, and that's the reason why we're not letting the vote go forward.   He'll probably be able to win the vote, somewhere between 45 and 47 votes against, and he'll think it's a victory.      But guess what, George? What's going to happen is, it reduces the confidence in the administration, and in the tough calls, the tough calls that are going to come up in the next 2 1/2 years, the president will have lost more credibility, and lost support.   And I think he's making a mistake, a serious mistake, not only institutionally, but for his own naked self-interest and the administration for the next 2 1/2 to three years.   STEPHANOPOULOS: So you don't have enough votes to keep the filibuster going?      BIDEN:  I don't know. I'm going to be completely straight with you. I'm not at all certain we do.      STEPHANOPOULOS: Let's turn to Guantanamo. We heard the Amnesty International report. They said it's the gulag of our times. President Bush called that absurd.   Just quickly, what's your view on that? Is that the proper word?      BIDEN: Well, no, I don't think it's the proper word, but we're getting hung up on a word. I think it's a vast exaggeration.      But back in January, I introduced a bill saying we should have an independent commission to go take a look at this, not only Guantanamo, but Abu Ghraib, the rest of the prison system, make a recommendation to the United States Congress, and let's deal with this openly.   Because this has become the greatest propaganda tool that exists for recruiting of terrorists around the world. And it is unnecessary to be in that position. We should have an independent U.S. commission take a look at it, make recommendations to the Congress.   That bill I introduced is going to get a hearing in the Judiciary Committee in the next couple weeks. I think we should get on with this, clean it up, and move on.   STEPHANOPOULOS: Many say we should go even farther. Tom Friedman in the New York Times said just the other week that we have to shut down Guantanamo. Here's what he said: Just shut it down and then plow it under. It has become worse than an embarrassment. I am convinced that more Americans are dying and will die if we keep the Gitmo prison open than if we shut it down.   Does he have a point?      BIDEN: I think he does have a point. I made the same point, and I guess Tom did too, about Abu Ghraib. I mean, look. We have to release guys...   (CROSSTALK)      STEPHANOPOULOS:  So we should shut it down?      BIDEN: I think that should -- I want a commission to make a recommendation, so everybody is saying that it's not just me, or others just, you know, espousing a point of view, there's a rationale for it.   But the end result is, I think we should end up shutting it down, moving those prisoners. Those that we have reason to keep, keep. And those we don't, let go.   But the bottom line is, I think more Americans are in jeopardy as a consequence of the perception that exists worldwide with its existence than if there were no Gitmo.   STEPHANOPOULOS: You were also on your trip this week in Chad, right on the border of Darfur, where of course there's been this horrible killing over the last...   BIDEN: Yes.      STEPHANOPOULOS: ...couple of years.      President Bush this week called it a genocide. Do you agree?      BIDEN: I agree, but I wish the president would move now. I wrote to the president over, I don't know how long ago, six, eight weeks ago. This is something where a small force of Europeans, a small NATO force, a small E.U. force, literally in the hundreds to the thousands, would have a phenomenal impact.   I met with the regional director, commander of the African Union forces in the area, and he said, look, we don't have the mandate, we don't have the men, we don't have the capability.   All you'd have to do is put in there somewhere between 1,500 and 3,000 forces, you would change the whole complexion of the area, you could enforce a no-fly zone from Chad. The Janjaweed, most people think, would melt into the woodworks. They're the ones committing the atrocities, as a consequence of the leadership in Khartoum.   I think we could radically change the world, radically change the number of lives we would save, at very low cost.      STEPHANOPOULOS: And you would include American troops in that?      BIDEN: I would include American troops in that, and I'm going to get 100,000 letters because of that. But look, my daughter, who's up with me at Syracuse tonight, 24 years old, she turns around, and she's going to be having in her generation, there's going to be another movie. It's going to be Hotel Darfur. It's not going to be Rwanda.   We all know what we could have done with a limited amount of force. We should do it now, and the Europeans should not be let off the hook. The Europeans have equally as much, if not more of an obligation, than we do.   STEPHANOPOULOS: Finally, sir, I want to turn to politics here at home. Your party chairman, Howard Dean, has been out on the stump all across the country. I want to show you something he said earlier this week.   (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)      HOWARD DEAN: The idea that you have to wait on line for eight years to cast your ballot in Florida, there's something the matter with that.   Well, Republicans, I guess, can do that, because a lot of them have never made an honest living in their lives.      (END VIDEO CLIP)      STEPHANOPOULOS: He's also said that he hates Republicans, that they're mean, and that the House majority leader ought to return to Houston, where he can serve his jail sentence, even though, as you know, he's been convicted of no crime.   Is Howard Dean doing the party any good?      BIDEN: Not with that kind of rhetoric.      He doesn't speak for me with that kind of rhetoric. And I don't think he speaks for the majority of Democrats. And -- but I wish that rhetoric would change.   STEPHANOPOULOS: So you think you have to rein him in?      BIDEN: Well, I don't know. I don't presume to suggest I can rein in any chairman, but I think that the response from the bulk of the elected Democrats I don't imagine is much different from the one I just gave you, and I hope he listens.   STEPHANOPOULOS: Senator Biden, thank you very much. And congratulations, you're up at Syracuse to receive a lifetime achievement award this weekend from your alma mater. Congratulations on that.   BIDEN:  Thank you very much.      To visit ABC's This Week web page, go to:  ABCNews.com   