
            	Senator Biden is Interviewed on Hardball with Chris Matthews
             September 5, 2006 
 MATTHEWS: Senator Joe Biden is the top Democrat on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. He's running for president in '08.   Senator Biden, your response to the president's statement today?      BIDEN: Well, the president has acknowledged his policy hasn't worked so far, Chris. He said we're changing our policy. It sounds like a Democratic prescription. He uses the phrase, if I have it right here, our strategy recognizes the war on terror is a different kind of war involving both the battle of arms and the battle of ideas. Well, we've been losing both of those, measured by the president's own standards.   MATTHEWS: Why do you think the Democratic Party, of which you are a member, and I believe you're part of this, is focusing on the secretary of defense, a number two person, a person appointed by the president? Why not direct your fire at the commander in chief who sets the policy to go into Iraq?   BIDEN: Well, that's what I'm doing. My disagreement's with the president, as my mother would say, God love him. Look at the measure by which he said we were going to win the war.   The axis of evil, he was going to take care of.  It's much worse off.      He talked about the need for us to democratize. He confused elections with democracy. He does none of the hard democracy building. When Abu Mazen won the election, we did virtually nothing to prop him up and give him some means by which he could gain a constituency. When we got the Syrians out of Lebanon, we virtually did nothing for a year to fill the vacuum, bring down the Lebanese army. And so what happened? Hezbollah metastasized.   And, look, the elections have produced extremes in all the countries where they have had them. Just go down the list of the things that he's measured. Terror attacks are up. Osama bin Laden is alive and well. 9/11 Commission has demonstrated that this administration thus far has failed to do what's necessary to protect the homeland.   But I take some comfort from the fact the president is fundamentally changing his rhetoric here. If you read this plan saying we have to engage in a war on ideas, then, in fact, you'd say, Wait a minute, who just said that?   And so I think there is maybe some hope here that they may very well fundamentally change their approach. But so far the strategy -- look, we have no energy policy. We are not in a position where we have done anything materially. We have Afghanistan on the brink of losing it. We have Iraq in the state of chaos.   We need a plan, Chris, and the president didn't put forward one.      MATTHEWS: You know, just a few months ago, if you even said that the American people need to try to understand our enemy, you had your block knocked off. You were considered an appeaser, a Chamberlain.   BIDEN:  Exactly right, exactly right.      MATTHEWS: Is the president changing on that point and saying we must figure out why these people want to kill themselves to get us?   BIDEN: Well, I hope he is. I hope he is. I know all the really smart guys around him think he does. The military thinks they have to do that.   The CIA thinks we have to do that.  Everybody understands that there is more than one war here.      If you look at John Lehman -- you know John as well as I do -- conservative Reagan appointee, secretary of the Navy -- in a piece he just wrote, saying we require a fundamental change in strategy. Anybody who thinks we're winning these wars is just mistaken.   MATTHEWS:  OK, how would you change policy?      If you begin to understand they're not just the evil ones; it's too simple, you want to try to figure out their motive and how they got to being killers because you don't want any more killers.   How do you change your policy, if you recognize that need?      BIDEN: I think you do three things. One, the first thing you do is you go into places like the Palestinian areas. You go into Lebanon and you don't allow Hezbollah to metastasize.   You go in there and you unite the world in rebuilding Lebanon instead of allowing Hezbollah, through Iranian money, to rebuild Lebanon.   You're proactive. You have a significant outreach to the one billion Muslims, by a fundamental change in our diplomacy, by reaching out and making our case, which we don't do.   You talk -- for example, our greatest ally against the theocracy in Tehran are the Iranian people.  They don't like them.      Look at the Pew poll six months ago. The place we were the most popular is in Iran. What do we do? We don't talk. We never get our side of the argument into Iran with the people who we could change their minds.   It requires a very fundamentally different approach. And look, Chris, I know I'm a broken record on this, but in Iraq, there's no possibility of us succeeding without a political solution.   You've got to get the Sunnis to buy in. You've got to deal with the militia and you've got to keep the neighbors out. There is no plan that this administration has to do those things.   MATTHEWS: OK, the president would say that you can't negotiate with our enemy. They're Hitler. The president says you don't deal with Nazis, basically, with Islamic fascists.   What are you saying, we can negotiate with the enemy, or what?      BIDEN: What I say is what John Kennedy said. We should never negotiate out of fear. We should never fear to negotiate. Our overwhelming weapon are our ideas.   How can we communicate to the rest of the billion Muslims in the world that we, in fact, have better ideas and offer hope if we don't expose, by direct contact with the Iranian theocracy, if we don't expose by having direct talks with the North Koreans, that we are offering hope, that we are offering something that is concrete and these guys are the bad guys?   You know, I mean, you don't do that by allowing yourself to become a punching bag. And just imagine, Chris, where we would have been in 1955, '60, '65 if we said, you know, those Communists are no good.   When Kruschev beat his shoe on the table, what did we do?  We talked; we won the war of ideas, defeated the Soviet Union.      Our military was necessary, but not sufficient. And the president, by the way, in his own statement says that. He says, our strategy recognized the war on terror is a different kind, involving the battle for ideas. You've got to get in the game to fight the battle.   MATTHEWS:  Let me ask you about politics.      Do you believe the president's series of speeches, right now, are aimed at saving his party's control of the Congress?      BIDEN:  Absolutely, positively.      MATTHEWS:  Do you believe that he's saying what he believes?      BIDEN: Probably. When I say probably, I believe he believes this, but I believe he is using it more as a weapon. And he's realized, in my view, that the comments of Rumsfeld of appeasers is over the top.   So this is another -- if you notice, the president made a very good speech today outlining Al Qaida's aims. I don't disagree with that. But then he was very short on the list of outlining how we're going to deal with taking care of Al Qaida.   And look, he mentioned Afghanistan -- major, major piece in the New York Times today, two whole pages, laying out the president and the secretary of state and secretary of defense rejecting the recommendation of the military.   MATTHEWS:  Senator, who would be a better secretary of defense than Don Rumsfeld?      BIDEN:  Anybody.      MATTHEWS:  Well, name a couple.      BIDEN:  Anybody with experience.      MATTHEWS:  Anybody?      BIDEN:  For example, Armitage.  Armitage would be a great secretary of defense -- strong Republican, very good, very strong.      There are people who have -- you can go back into...      MATTHEWS:  Would Tom Ridge be better?      BIDEN:  Would who?  I'm sorry.      MATTHEWS:  Tom Ridge, the former governor of Pennsylvania -- would he be better?      BIDEN: Tom Ridge -- well I think he might, but he doesn't have any experience in that area, so I'm not sure he would be better. But I know there are a number of people out there in the Republican ranks who are very, very serious people who would be better.   Look -- and this is not about picking on Don Rumsfeld. God love him. Look, this is about communicating to the rest of the world: We are ready to engage in the war of ideas. That's clearly not something Don Rumsfeld is ready to engage in, nor is the vice president. We can't do anything about the vice president. You can do something about the secretary of defense.   MATTHEWS:  Can I ask you a political question, Senator?      Have you raised enough money, or are you on the road to raising enough money to run for president?      BIDEN: I'm in the process of doing that. I believe I can do that. And we have raised about the same amount of money everybody but Hillary Clinton has raised, which is a different league, completely.   MATTHEWS:  What's the ante to run for president on the Democratic side?      Do you need, like, $30 billion -- $30 million?  What do you need to get in the game?      BIDEN:  $30 billion -- I think you need a billion.      (LAUGHTER)      No, I think, in order to be able to compete through the first four contests, you need somewhere between $30 million and $35 million by the end of that process.   MATTHEWS:  Keep those cards and letters coming.      (LAUGHTER)      Thank you very much, Senator Joe Biden.      BIDEN:  Thanks.   