
            	Senator Biden on Fox News Sunday with Chris Wallace
             August 6, 2006 
 Interview With Joe Biden, Newt Gingrich      Chris WALLACE: With talk of a cease-fire on the Lebanese border and a possible civil war in Iraq, where are we now in the Middle East?We want to take a look at the big picture with Senator Joe Biden, the Democrats' point man on foreign policy, who joins us from his home state of Delaware. And here in studio, former Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich.   Gentlemen, welcome back to Fox News Sunday .      NEWT GINGRICH, FORMER SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE: Good to be here.      WALLACE: I want to start with a question -- the issue I was discussing at the very end there with Steve Hadley. The Bush administration -- Secretary of State Rice -- set this marker, a sustainable cease-fire, a cease-fire that would fundamentally change the situation in that part of the world.   Speaker Gingrich, do you see the compromise that you hear coming out of the U.N., the answers you heard from Steve Hadley today --do you think it will accomplish that kind of a sustainable cease-fire?   GINGRICH: Let me say, first of all, I watched with fascination your interview with the Lebanese advisor to the prime minister. And what I heard was a man who's much more afraid of Syria and of Iran than he is of the United States and France.   And what he was saying was they're not going to disarm Hezbollah, they are, in fact, not going to be able to implement the cease-fire.   But I think you have a spirit building here almost like Munich in 1938 where the desire to be self-deluding leads people to say things that are patently not possible.   Let me just give you one example. There was already a 2,000-man international force on the Lebanon border. It's been there since the late 1970s. It's called the United Nations forces. It failed totally.   I see no evidence, and certainly nothing from Hezbollah or Iran, that indicates this cease-fire will be anything except a defeat for the democracies and a victory for the terrorists and the dictatorships.   WALLACE: Senator Biden, same question. Do you see a sustainable cease-fire out of what we're hearing from the U.N.? And directly on these points, who is going to disarm Hezbollah? Who is going to stop the shipment of weapons from Iran and Syria to Hezbollah?   SEN. JOSEPH BIDEN (D), DELAWARE: The answer is I come pretty close to agreeing with Newt on this one. I don't see a sustainable cease-fire without a whole heck of a lot of luck. It requires a really robust force.   One of the problems we have now is we've so squandered our strength in the region that we have to let the French lead, because the guy who gets to say we'll take troops in there is the guy who gets to call the shots.   The French are the only ones between us who are saying they're going to send troops in there, so it limits our ability to really impact on what the cease-fire is.   And quite frankly, Newt, I don't know how we get the disarmament of Hezbollah unless we somehow cut Syria out here as the middleman, and no one's talking to them that I know about, and no one has a plan how to take them out. So it seems to me like it's a pretty rough spot.   WALLACE: Senator Biden, let's take a bigger look at the entire situation here. To the degree that what we're seeing right now is a struggle between the forces of freedom, led by the U.S., and the forces of extremism, led by Iran, who's winning in the Middle East now?   BIDEN: Well, let me tell you, we're not -- let's just judge this by the president's own standards. He talked about the axis of evil. He announced it three years ago, implying we're going to do something about it.   You have the Shia much stronger now in Iraq than they ever were. You have Iran much stronger and moving toward a nuclear weapon. You have North Korea with 400 percent more fissile material.   Judge them by the standard -- talking about democratic elections. Well, democratic elections are not -- I mean, democracies are not made by a single election. We have emboldened Hezbollah, emboldened radical Shia. We've emboldened Hamas. They've won elections.   We find ourselves in the position where bin Laden is still alive and well. We find ourselves in a position where there is a -- you know, there was that famous snowflake that was put out by the secretary of defense. You know, he calls these ideas he spreads around for comment.   He said are we creating more bin Ladens and terrorists than we're killing. And I think the answer to that is yes. There's not much of a comprehensive strategy, and I, quite frankly, think we're worse off now than we were before this administration initiated its efforts in the region.   WALLACE: Speaker Gingrich, I want you to respond to that, but also, specifically this question: How real is the danger of a Shia crescent from Iran to the Shiite militias in Iraq and now to Hezbollah, an empowered Hezbollah, in Lebanon?   GINGRICH: Well, let me partly pick up where Senator Biden had us, and that is that it's more than an Islamic problem. You have the North Koreans who are desperately trying to get nuclear weapons and who clearly had the Iranians with them when they fired missiles on the 4th of July in what I think was a deliberate act of contempt for the U.S.   You have Hugo Chavez from Venezuela just finishing his fifth visit to Tehran. So I think it's more than even an -- I think there's a sort of world association of terrorists and dictators who would like the world made safe for extremism and dictatorship, and they understand they're all opposed to us, and they collaborate in ways we don't, frankly, understand.   I don't disagree with much of what Senator Biden said about analysis. I think this has turned out to be much harder than we thought it would be. It is much more difficult than we would like.   But the question is do you then find a way to withdraw, which is certainly what the left wing of his party would do, or do we have -- accepting that he and I both agree that we're not doing what we'd like to get done here, do we find a way to strengthen American involvement and do we find a way to have new strategies designed to defeat the dictatorships, not to appease them?   And I think that's going to be one of the most important arguments of the next two years.      WALLACE: Well, such as?      BIDEN: I agree.      GINGRICH: Well, I mean, I think, first of all, several points he made. I think that we should have a strategy for Syria.      Part of the strategy should be diplomacy, but part of the strategy should be to make quite clear to the dictatorship that in the absence of their agreeing to abide by certain conditions, one of which is no longer to be involved in Lebanon, we will take steps to replace the regime over time.   It's a very fragile, Allawi-dominated -- they're a sect, a minority sect, of about 6 percent of the country. They're not a powerful regime.   Second, I think we have to confront head-on how dangerous Iran is. Third, I think...      WALLACE: Well, wait. Wait, wait. How do you confront how dangerous Iran is?      GINGRICH: Well, you have a -- there's a reporter at Fox who is Iranian who can tell you chapter and verse about how many people there are in Iran who don't like the current regime, how many opportunities there are to begin to undermine it, how many things we could be doing if we were broadcasting into Iran more than three hours a week. I mean, the fact is we have not had a Ronald Reagan-style effort to use every element short of the military to -- both diplomatic, economic, political information, to change these regimes.   And I think we also have to win the argument in Europe. Three quick examples. Ahmadinejad, every time he calls for the elimination or the destruction of Israel, is violating U.N. Charter chapter two. There ought to be a motion to censure him.   The cost of the Lebanese war should be borne by Syria and Iran because if they weren't financing and supplying Hezbollah, there would be no problem there.   The third example is the Iranians' certain involvement in Iraq, which we don't, frankly, take head on for a variety of reasons, but which is a real problem.   And I think that the United States has to -- because I believe this is, in the long run, life and death because of the threat of nuclear weapons, the United States has to redouble and rethink what we are doing, because this isn't good enough.   But the answer is to make sure we win, not to find a clever way to surrender and pull out.      WALLACE: Senator Biden?      BIDEN: I agree, there is no clever way to surrender and pull out. We pull out, it's a gigantic loss. But if you notice what Newt said, which is essentially a refutation of the bush doctrine, he said part of this is you have to negotiate.   Look, there is no reason why the Allawi government in Syria doesn't understand that looking north to Iran is not in their long-term interest. But what do we do? We don't even talk to them. I don't mean talk to them nicely, talk to them about what good guys they are. Figure out what's in our mutual interest.   We, in fact -- as far back as six years ago, I called for us providing for aid to NGOs in Iran, us to talk to democratic forces in Iran. And what did we do? We had this absolute embargo. We could not talk to anybody in Iran.   Newt is right. Seventy-five percent of the people in Iran hate their government. We should be negotiating out loud with Iran so that we have two purposes here. Let the whole world know that we're being reasonable, and let the Iranian people know what they are missing. Build that pressure upon that government.   The truth of the matter is there is no easy military option like a lot of the bravado that goes on on the right wing of his party. It does not exist. You haven't seen this administration draw any red lines in Korea or in Tehran.   So we have to use the totality of our strength, which includes our diplomacy. Why should we be afraid to talk? It seems to me we are squandering it.   WALLACE: Senator Biden, given the fact that you talked about the right wing of his party and he talked about the left wing of yours, I feel free to now bring a little politics in.   You support Joe Biden in the -- Joe Lieberman, rather, in the Democratic primary in Connecticut, which is this next Tuesday. If he loses, will you continue to back him as an independent?   BIDEN: I'm not going to comment on that until it's over, because as soon as I say that, then I'm making a comment about whether he's going to win or lose. He's going to win. I'm with him. I'll judge that question after, in fact, the primary is over.   My expectation is I will be supporting the Democratic nominee named Joe Lieberman.      WALLACE: Speaker Gingrich, if the Democrats vote down Lieberman, basically because he was an antiwar candidate and Ned Lamont wants to get out of Iraq, what does that say about the Democratic Party heading into November?   GINGRICH: Well, you have a number of things building. You have this report that Nancy Pelosi has indicated she would appoint Alcee Hastings to be head of the Intelligence Committee, which would be a stunningly irresponsible act since he is only the ninth person in history to be impeached and removed as a federal judge, and the idea of him chairing the Intelligence Committee basically means that the system will just break down totally.   You have Congressman Dingell, a potential chairman for the Democrats, saying there's no moral difference between Hezbollah and...   WALLACE: I mean, forgive me. Well, I do want to say that she's also issued a statement saying, in fact, that no committee chairmanships will be set until after the election.   GINGRICH: Right.      WALLACE: But in any case, what would it say about the Democratic Party?      GINGRICH: OK. And then third, you have what I think is a legitimate insurgency in Connecticut which needs to be met head-on and debated head- on, which is people who say this is so hard, it is so frightening, it's so painful, can't we come home and hide.   And I think if Lamont wins next Tuesday, it will be the beginning of an extraordinarily important period in American politics and in American history, for all of us to have this debate. How dangerous are the terrorists? How dangerous are the dictatorships? And what does America have to do in that kind of a dangerous world?   WALLACE: Senator Biden, you've got 30 seconds to respond.      BIDEN: Look, no Democrats are saying come home and hide. The Democrats are saying my God, this administration has dug us in such a gigantic deep hole, they seem to have no learning curve, there's a civil war emerging in Iraq, our troops are there, even the administration has said two years ago in a civil war we cannot determine the outcome.   This administration shows no ability to put any pressure on the so- called unity government to do what has to be done to get a political settlement there. They have no plan. They let 1559, the Lebanese situation -- everyone knew there'd be a vacuum filled when Syria left. We did nothing, nothing to promote filling that vacuum.   WALLACE: Senator Biden...      BIDEN: There's no plan on this administration. That's what worries the American people and Democrats.      WALLACE: Senator Biden, Speaker Gingrich, we want to thank you both for policy and for politics. Always a pleasure to talk with both of you.   BIDEN: Thank you.      END    