
            	Floor Statement: The Palestinian Anti-Terrorism Act of 2006
             March 6, 2006 
 Mr. BIDEN. Mr. President, I am pleased to join the Senator from Kentucky as the lead cosponsor of the Palestinian Anti-Terrorism Act of 2006.   This bill sends a clear message: The United States will not provide a single penny to a Hamas-led government unless it renounces violence, recognizes Israel, and accepts past agreements between Israel and the Palestinian Authority. These requirements are clear, and they reflect the will not just of the United States, but of the international community, including the so-called Quartet of the United States, the European Union, Russia and the United Nations.   Simply put, Hamas must choose between bullets and ballots, between destructive terror and constructive governance. It cannot have it both ways.   The bill affirms support for a two-state solution to end the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, an objective that Hamas rejects. The bill also requires the administration to report on steps it is taking to urge other nations to refrain from providing financial assistance to Hamas. In addition, it places restrictions on diplomatic contacts and movements by representatives of Hamas.   At the same time, the bill makes clear that we want to continue to support the basic needs of the Palestinian people. Assistance to the Palestinians for things such as food, water, medicine, and sanitation through non-governmental organizations will be permitted under this (inaudible).   Instead of moving urgently, we dithered. Several months into last year, the President made a smart move by appointing Jim Wolfensohn the Quartet's special envoy to the Middle East, but he failed to strongly support his efforts. It wasn't until November that Secretary Rice got directly involved by brokering a breakthrough agreement on Gaza. That was welcome, but it was too little, too late.   I don't want to dwell on the past, but I think it's important that we try to learn from it.       It's also well known that Israel had deep misgivings about proceeding with these elections. Their views should have been considered more closely--after all, the consequences affect them directly.   Overall, I think this Administration has made the mistake of confusing democracy with elections. Elections are necessary but not sufficient--they do not a democracy make. Democracy is about building durable institutions--including political parties, transparent and effective government, civil society and a strong private sector.   We see what happens in the Middle East when you have elections with weak institutions--including in Egypt, Muslim Brotherhood, Lebanon, Hezbollah, Iraq, SCIRI, and now the Palestinian Authority. All of us support the spread of democracy, but we should also support the hard work and investments it takes to build it.   Regarding the Palestinian vote, what should we do now? Obviously, Hamas's victory casts a pall on the future of the peace process.   First, Israel cannot be expected to negotiate with a party that calls for its destruction, engages in terrorism and maintains an armed militia.   Second, we should build international support for the position of the Quartet--no assistance to a Hamas-led government until it agrees to recognize Israel, renounce violence, and accept past agreements.   Third, we need to press the Arab Gulf states not to rush in and financially support a Hamas-led government. That would take the pressure off Hamas, and it would reveal the hypocrisy of the Arab governments who say they support peace, but were unwilling to be more generous with Abbas's government.   Hamas is now ``the dog that caught the car.'' It must respond to international demands and, even more importantly, it must be responsive to the Palestinian public which wants reform, but doesn't want isolation, poverty, and radicalism.   The legislation I have introduced with my colleague, the senior Senator from Kentucky, is our attempt to clarify the choices for Hamas, and to make clear our rejection of a group that is committed to terror.  