
            	Attn Mr. President: Democrats Have Offered Plans for Iraq - Where is Yours?
             November 6, 2006 
 This week, President Bush repeatedly said that Democrats have no plan for Iraq - that Democrats are only offering harsh criticism. But the President is ignoring the facts. Democrats have repeatedly laid out comprehensive strategies for Iraq, including in letters to President Bush (dated July 30, Sept. 4 and Oct 20, 2006). Democrats urged President Bush to push Iraqis to reach a sustainable political settlement, including amending the Iraqi Constitution to achieve a fair sharing of power and resources. We underscored the need to disarm the militias. We also called for an international conference to involve key countries and secure resources to finance Iraq's reconstruction. The same three-pronged strategy was presented in a Democratic amendment that was defeated by the Republican majority in the Senate.   In addition, U.S. Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr. (D-DE) and Council on Foreign Relations President Emeritus Leslie H. Gelb laid out a five point plan for Iraq on May 1, 2006 in a joint op-ed in the New York Times. The Biden-Gelb plan is a chance to achieve the two objectives most Americans share: to leave Iraq without leaving chaos behind. The plan would maintain a unified Iraq by decentralizing it and giving Kurds, Shiites and Sunnis breathing room in their own regions - as provided for in the Iraqi constitution. The central government would be responsible for common interests, like border security and the distribution of oil revenues. The plan calls for securing support from the Sunnis - who have no oil -- by guaranteeing them a proportionate share (about 20 percent) of oil revenues. It would increase economic aid, ask the oil-rich Arab Gulf states to fund it and tie all assistance to the protection of minority rights and the creation of a jobs program. It would convene a regional conference to enlist the support of Iraq's neighbors and create a Contact Group of the major powers to enforce their commitments. And the plan would ask our military to draw up plans to responsibly withdraw most U.S. forces from Iraq by 2008 - enough time for the political settlement to take hold.   So Mr. President - Democrats have offered plans to change course in Iraq.  Where is yours?   ###      GROWING SUPPORT FOR AND INTEREST IN THE BIDEN-GELB PLAN FOR IRAQ   The Biden-Gelb plan has received broad, bi-partisan interest and support. From new Democratic candidates running for office to Republican stalwarts, from the editorial pages of the Washington Post to the blogosphere, the Biden-Gelb plan draws praise.   BI-PARTISAN INTEREST AND SUPPORT FROM PUBLIC OFFICIALS AND CANDIDATES   Senator Richard Lugar (R-IN), PBS Newshour with Jim Lehrer, (9/19/2006) My own view is that... we have to continually advise our friends in Iraq to get on with this question of the division of the oil money or the dedication of the various groups, as well as how a federation can work. It may not be an absolute division of the country into three parts, but at least some ways in which the Kurds, who already have a great deal of autonomy, are joined by a lot of Shiites that want the same thing and Sunnis that are worried that they're going to be left out of the picture. And that takes heavy lifting. Politically, a lot of objections even to bringing it up before their congress, but we have to keep insisting that they do. That has to be on the agenda.   Senator Sam Brownback (R-KS), The Hill (10/24/06), I think this idea of maybe the three autonomous regions within one country may be the one that we start to move more and more towards.   Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), Houston Chronicle (10/17/06), Allowing the Kurds, Sunni and Shia to govern their own territories while sharing in Iraq's oil revenues through a national revenue stream could help quell the bloodletting.   Senator John Warner (R-VA), On the Senate Floor (5/1/06) - Senator Biden's commentary, in my judgment, was constructive, and was maybe a little too late to back up from where we are at this moment. But it was nevertheless a positive contribution to the debate and constructive....   Rep. Harold Ford, candidate for US Senate in TN (10/26/06) IMUS in the Morning,  My opponent has indicated that stay the course is the right approach. I happen to disagree. I side with one of your good friends, Joe Biden on this issue. I think he has one of the best and most thoughtful plans.   Congressman Chris Van Hollen, MSNBC Live (10/20/06) - Democrats have been making some of the most creative proposals. Senator Biden has a proposal for reconciliation in Iraq, but the stay the course rhetoric you hear from this administration clearly isn't getting us anywhere, things are getting worse not better. [T]he American people want a congress that's going to deal with this issue in reality not in the fantasy world. Watch the Video   Bill Richardson, Governor of New Mexico, in the Christian Science Monitor (9/27/06) - I would also study Senator Biden's federation [proposal]. I think that may be ultimately the right solution.   David Hunter, Oklahoma 5th District Democratic nominee, The Tecumseh Countywide News/ The Shawnee Sun, (10/1/06), He notes that the war in Iraq is not going well. It's a mess right now. Most likely, we're in the middle of a civil war.' He says Sen. Joe Biden, a Democrat form Delaware, has a plan that ought to be explored that will get the United States out of Iraq.   Joe Courtney, Connecticut 2nd District Democratic candidate, in the Journal Inquirer (CT) (9/20/2006) - In providing an alternative to Bush's policy of securing a unified central government in Iraq, Courtney cited a strategy outlined last month in a Washington Post op-ed piece by U.S. Sen. Joseph R. Biden Jr., D-Del... Biden compares his plan to the 1995 Dayton Accords, which helped end ethnic cleansing in Bosnia by dividing the country into ethnic federations. Courtney said the Bosnian model could be effective in Iraq.   Eric Massa, New York 29th District Democratic candidate, in the New York Times (9/17/06) - [Massa] gave qualified support for a plan devised by Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., Democrat of Delaware, to create three semiautonomous regions in Iraq to keep the Kurds, the Shiites and the Sunnis from each others' throats. Mr. Biden's plan is one of the most detailed Democratic blueprints for ending American involvement and has been embraced by a number of Democratic House and Senate candidates.   Michael Ray Ellisor, South Carolina 2nd District Democratic candidate, in the State Newspaper (10/27/06) - He favored a plan proposed by Sen. Joe Biden, D-Del., which would divide Iraq into three regions by ethnic or religious groups.   Phyllis Busansky, Florida's 9th District Democratic candidate in the St. Petersburg Times (10/31/2006) - Busansky said the three-state framework laid out by Sen. Joseph Biden, D-Delaware, offers the best way to stem the sectarian conflict in Iraq and get U.S. troops out from the center firestorm in Baghad. The Iraqis can in fact separate themselves into three different ethnic groups, she said. We can patrol the borders and make sure the oil is apportioned appropriately.   FROM EDITORIAL PAGES AND COLUMNISTS   David Broder, Washington Post columnist (5/4/06) - At a time when most people see nothing but hopeless discord in Iraq, it is healthy to have someone offering alternatives that could produce progress.   Jackson Diehl, Washington Post columnist (10/2/06) - Instead, the time may finally be ripe for some of the ideas that have been doggedly pushed for most of this year by Democratic Sen. Joseph Biden, who has been one of his party's most serious and responsible voices on Iraq... It's easy to find holes in this strategy, as with any other plan for Iraq... But Biden's basic idea -- of an external political intervention backed by an international alliance -- is the one big option the Bush administration hasn't tried.   Philadelphia Inquirer, Editorial Board (10/1/06) - One shining exception to 'slogans over substance' is U.S. Sen. Joe Biden (D., Del.). Gutsily, he's put forth a plan for dividing Iraq into semi-autonomous Kurdish, Shiite and Sunni zones, with Baghdad as a federal city; a fair division of oil revenues; and U.S. troops nearby as a watchdog against neighbors' mischief. You can name a dozen ways Biden's approach could collapse. But at least he has put a reality-based proposal on the table. That's more than most of the people seeking your vote right now seem willing to do.   David Ignatius, Washington Post columnist (9/30/06) - The Democrat who has tried hardest to think through these problems is Sen. Joseph Biden. He argues that the current government of national unity isn't succeeding in holding Iraq together, and that America should instead embrace a policy of 'federalism plus' that will devolve power to the Shiite, Sunni and Kurdish regions. Iraqis are already voting for sectarian solutions, Biden argues, and America won't stabilize Iraq unless it aligns its policy with this reality. I disagree with some of the senator's conclusions, but he's asking the right question: How do we fix Iraq?   David Yepsen, Des Moines Register columnist (11/2/2006) -- Biden has helped author a program for Iraq. He said it is based on the Dayton peace accords, which are reducing tensions in Bosnia. According to his proposal, Iraqis would form three regional governments  Shiite, Sunni and Kurd  as part of a federal government. Sunnis would be given a 20 percent share of oil revenues to make sure they feel vested in the country.The regional governments would govern local affairs, and the federal one would supervise border defense, foreign policy and oil production. A regional conference of Iraq's neighbors would be created to help respect borders and bolster the national government.Oil-rich neighbors would finance a jobs-creation program in Iraq. Biden said all this should work because Iraq's neighbors have a vested interest in restoring stability to the area.U.S. troops would be gradually withdrawn by the end of 2007. A force of 20,000 would be stationed somewhere in the region to quickly fight terrorist concentrations and help train Iraqi security.At a time when other candidates are spending the closing days of this campaign season airing attack ads and calling each other names, it was refreshing to hear an American political leader talking about bipartisan, nonideological solutions to one of the biggest problems facing the country.   Bill O'Reilly, on The O'Reilly Factor (9/29/06) - See, I favor Biden's -- Senator Biden's solution of the three regional areas. Because you've already got one, the Kurds in the north that's autonomous. If you could carve the two out, divide up the oil revenue, have a central government protected by the Americans to make sure that the Iranians don't come in, I think that might work.   George Packer, The New Yorker (5/8/06) - [The premise of Biden - Gelb proposal] is, admittedly, the logic of desperation, raising a thousand questions and provoking as many vexing problems. Nor is it entirely a new idea. But, after three years of war and a chronic inability of leaders in both countries to think beyond next month, a fundamental change of policy deserves to be taken seriously. If there are no more Wise Men in Washington, can there at least be wisdom?   Bill Danvers, former Clinton NSC Official in UPI Editorial (10/2/06) - Creative proposals for dealing with U.S. involvement in Iraq -- like the one from Sen. Joseph Biden, D-Del. and Council on Foreign Relations President Emeritus Leslie Gelb calling for a unified but decentralized Iraq with more autonomy for its regions and ethnic groups -- should be the focus of debate about U.S. policy options, rather than arguing over a date certain.   Portland Press Herald (ME) editorial board (5/9/06) - Biden's scenario opens the door for Congress to conduct a needed discussion about options that fall between the status quo and immediate withdrawal.   Delaware News Journal editorial board (5/3/06) - Sen. Joseph Biden has done the country a service by forwarding a thoughtful, realistic plan for the future of Iraq.   The Barre Montpelier Times Argus (VT) editorial board (5/2/06) - Let's hope someone in the White House reads the Biden-Gelb essay and draws Bush's attention to a solution he can embrace.   St. Louis Post-Dispatch editorial board (05/02/06) - Together with incentives (i.e., a share of oil revenue) to attract the Sunnis, a phased American troop withdrawal and a regional non-aggression pact (Iran and Syria, stay out), the Biden-Gelb plan offers at least a semblance of hope. You could even call it a turning point.   The Journal Standard (IL) editorial board (5/2/06) - Sen. Joe Biden... [is] among the few Democrats offering something resembling a plan. On Sunday, he floated the idea of separating Iraq along sectarian lines into three largely autonomous states under the umbrella of a weak central government. That may or may not be the ideal policy. The point is we need to do something radically different. The alternative is a mission perpetually unfulfilled and ever more costly in American blood and treasure.   Marilou Johanek, Toledo Blade columnist (5/5/06) - Mr. Biden's plan may not be the way to stem the ethnic and religious violence among competing Iraqi powerbrokers, but at least it's an alternative to the administration's failed Plan A and deserves more study than speedy dismissal.   Barrie Dunsmore, The Barre Montpelier Times Argus columnist (5/7/06) - This particular 'third way' proposal is not entirely new. But it came neatly packaged with some persuasive arguments in an Op-Ed piece in The New York Times last week... This plan is not a silver bullet. And one of the main arguments against the proposal is that it could encourage permanent partition and leave the region in chaos. But as the authors point out, the sectarian militias already rule large areas of the country, death squads are killing dozens of people daily and Iraqi-style ethnic cleansings have already forced tens of thousands of people from their homes.   John Hall, Cincinnati Post columnist (10/31/2006) - Ironically, the one area where there is hope things might soften up is on Iraq policy. A few Democrats are willing to stick their necks out for a plan by Sen. Joe Biden, D-Del., that would federalize Iraq into three states, each sharing in the country's oil wealth. Former United Nations Ambassador Richard Holbrooke added heavyweight support to it last week at a time when many had written off the concept as dead. Because most Democrats have been reluctant to set forth a policy for Iraq, the three-way-split proposal had been a lone contender for an official opposition alternative to the current administration position. More than that, however, the Biden plan or some variation of it is said to have substantial support within the bipartisan Baker commission. Its special appeal is that it is modeled after the Dayton peace accords, which eventually led to peace in Bosnia and a long-range settlement in the Balkans.   FROM FOREIGN POLICY EXPERTS   Richard Holbrooke, Washington Post (10/24/06) - I urge [President Bush] to lay out realistic goals, redeploy our troops and focus on the search for a political solution. We owe that to the Iraqis who welcomed the overthrow of Saddam Hussein and put their trust in us, only to find their lives in danger as a result. By a political solution, I mean something far more ambitious than current U.S. efforts aimed at improving the position of Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki by changing ministers or setting timelines for progress. Sen. Joe Biden and Les Gelb have advocated what they call, in a reference to the negotiations that ended the war in Bosnia in 1995, a Dayton-like solution to the political situation -- by which they mean a looser federal structure with plenty of autonomy for each of the three main groups, and an agreement on sharing oil revenue.   Henry Kissinger, Delaware News Journal (5-2-06) --  Kissinger said the plan should get careful consideration.      Madeleine Albright (5/3/06) - The Iraqi constitution actually does recognize differences among the regions and gives a certain amount of autonomy to particularly the Kurds in the north and the Shias in the south, with the idea that the central government would continue to have military and foreign affairs. And I think that Senator Biden is exploring that, with the idea that if you don't actually give recognition to those real differences, that then it is more likely to split apart...   So I think it's interesting that Senator Biden presented this. And it's because I think there really have to be some ideas to try to deal with what is a badly deteriorating situation.   Walter Russell Mead of the Council on Foreign Relations, PBS Newshour (10/25/06) - I thought that the Joe Biden op-ed that appeared in the Wall Street Journal yesterday was also a very sober and thoughtful approach. JIM LEHRER: For those who didn't read that, capsulize it for us. Mead: Well, they were basically talking about a way forward in Iraq that would have some bipartisan support, and something that the administration could work with. And I think what we're seeing now is a sense that the country does need to try to move as united as possible. Muwaffaq al-Rubaie, National Security Advisor of Iraq on CNN Late Edition (5/7/06)   Blitzer: Is Biden right when he suggests that Iraq effectively should be sort of divided up into these three sectors?      Al-Rubaie: I don't think Senator Biden has said that Iraq should be divided into three sections. What I think -- and I can't agree more with Senator Biden and his article, and I think he is a very well-informed person. What we are talking here -- and he's talking about Iraqi constitution. The constitution of Iraq has said very clearly that you can form provinces, regions, federal -- this is a democratic federal system, and any two or three or nine or 10 provinces can get together and form a region, and form a federal unit. And this is exactly what Joseph Biden is saying, or I believe when I read his article.   Blitzer: So you think it's a good idea, that Biden has a good idea?      Al-Rubaie: I think Biden's idea is a good idea, with some modification because it's very compatible with our permanent constitution, which was ratified on the 15th of October last year.   Anne Marie Slaughter, Dean of Woodrow Wilson School at Princeton University (5/18/06) - I think that the Biden-Gelb plan is the best option out there.   Eric Leaver, Institute for Policy Studies Research Fellow, on TomPaine.com (9/5/06) - The two alternatives that have been fleshed out most deeply are 'strategic redeployment' and plans for partition... The five-point plan of Sen. Joe Biden, D-Del., calling for a virtual partition of Iraq has its roots in proposals made by Peter Galbraith, a former U.S. ambassador with a long involvement in policy on Iraq, and Leslie Gelb, president emeritus of the Council on Foreign Relations... Both of these plans have merits... These measures would draw in Iraq's neighbors who are desperately needed for a long-term solution. [Recommends adopting Biden's plan as part of a 5-step 'responsible deployment']   Juan Cole, Middle East scholar and prominent blogger (5/2/06) - You have to admire Biden for recognizing the mess and for thinking seriously about what structural programs could be implemented to provide a way out of this mess.   David Phillips, Council on Foreign Relations, author of Losing Iraq (5/2/06) - What they are proposing makes absolute sense. By decentralizing power and giving regions control over governance, economy and cultural affairs, you have some chance of holding the country together.  