
            	Celebrate National Veterans Awareness Week: November 6 - 12, 2005
             November 6, 2005 
 The week of November 6th, 2005 has been designed National Veterans Awareness Week. This is the fifth straight year that Congress and the President have officially recognized Senator Joe Bidens (D-DE) resolution calling for a National Veterans Awareness Week.   WHAT IS NATIONAL VETERANS AWARENESS WEEK?   Senator Joe Biden first wrote the National Veterans Awareness Week resolution in 2000 in order to help encourage, develop, and disseminate educational materials and activities to teach students in elementary and secondary school about the contributions of veterans and their importance in preserving American peace and prosperity.   The idea for the first National Veterans Awareness Week came from a seventh grade student from Delaware named Samuel Cashdollar. Cashdollar, who at the time was 13-years old, gave a presentation at the Delaware VFWs Youth Essay contest in 2000 titled How Should We Honor Americas Veterans? in which he suggested that Congress establish a National Veterans Awareness Week. Senator Biden heard of the idea and decided to act on it.   WHY HAVE A NATIONAL VETERANS AWARENESS WEEK?   In announcing his first resolution for a National Veterans Awareness Week, Senator Biden said, During World War II it was extremely uncommon to find a family in America that did not have one of its members on active duty. Now there are numerous families that include no military veterans at all. As a consequence, many of our young people have no connection with or knowledge about the important historical and ongoing role of the men and women who have served in the military.   To read a full copy of Senator Biden's floor statement, click here.   The goal of National Veterans Awareness Week is to increase awareness of the importance those who served in the Armed Forces by educating the youth of America on their sacrifices, bravery, and heroism. In that way, National Veterans Awareness Week complements and augments Veterans Day itself.   This year National Veterans Awareness Week will be celebrated from November 6 through November 12. For more information on Veterans Day and National Veterans Awareness Week, you can visit the following website:   Department of Veteran Affairs   