
            	Senator Biden is Interviewed on FOX News
             September 6, 2006 
 BILL HEMMER, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: Right now, Senator Joe Biden's response to the president's revised war on terror plan. Senator Biden, my guest to start the hour.   Senator, welcome here.      BIDEN:  Good to be here with you, Bill.      HEMMER: You know, you've said you want to be in the White House maybe come 2008 or after that. What do you think job number one is in this country today when it comes to security?   BIDEN:  Get it right in Iraq.  The president is correct:  If we  fail in Iraq, everything else falls apart.      And this is a multiple war we're fighting. We're fighting a civil war in Iraq. We're fighting a war against jihadist terrorists around the world. We're concerned about Iran. We're concerned about North Korea.   But, quite frankly, we are -- Iraq is eating up so much of our resources and our military that we better get it right in Iraq.   HEMMER:  So then just take Iraq, when you say get it right,  what do you mean by getting it right?      BIDEN: What I mean by getting it right is make sure we don't trade a dictator for chaos. And that requires a political solution as every military man I've met with in my seven trips into Iraq have indicated.   And that is you've got to get the Sunnis to buy in to stability in Iraq. You've got to give them a piece of the oil revenues in their constitution. And you've got to purge the police forces and the army of these death squads. And you got to get an agreement on how you're going to begin to get that economy running.   HEMMER: You know, Senator, I don't think there are many people who disagree with that. But the White House is saying all these Democratic proposals have already been pursued in Iraq and that is the effort that's happening every day...   BIDEN:  Not a single one has.  Not a single one has.      You don't hear this president talking about the need to amend the Iraqi constitution, as we implied would be done, to give the Sunnis a piece of the oil revenue.   You don't hear the president talking about needing to send in thousands of civilians that are going to be able to get these agencies -- their department of agriculture, the department of education, et cetera -- up and running.   You don't hear the president with a specific plan how they're going to purge the police forces of the death squads. When I asked General Casey that, in the presence of the president several months ago, I said, When will the Iraqi army be able to move on the death squad? He said, They will not.   HEMMER: But General Casey is also on record as saying you give him 12 months, maybe 18 months at the outside, and he believes the Iraqi forces will be able to control the entire country.   BIDEN:  Well, that's true.  He does say that.  But there is no  plan.      HEMMER: It's been a very tough fight here, and a big, tough struggle here, Senator. But as you well know, this takes time and it's not easy.   BIDEN:  Are you on the administration payroll here?      HEMMER:  Not at all.  I'm going the other side with you.      BIDEN:  The fact of the matter is, what's the plan?      The plan so far is to add more troops into Baghdad. Our own military, in the assessment of our military was once those forces leave Baghdad, there is grave doubt as to whether or not we will be able to control -- the Iraqis will be able to control the city of Baghdad.   We need to get a political settlement. A political settlement requires each of the parties to buy in to accomplishing their goals without a sectarian war.   HEMMER: Senator, let me turn you quickly to the election, 62 days away. Are you as confident as so many Democrats have spoken publicly about the ability to overtake Congress on November 7th?   BIDEN: I feel quite confident about winning back the House of Representatives. I think it's going to be harder to win back the United States Senate.   But you know that old expression: It's not over until it's over and a lot can happen in 67 days both that could be helpful and hurtful to the prospects of both political parties.   HEMMER:  Thank you, Senator.  Good to have you on, OK.  Come on  back.  We've got all kinds of stuff to talk about here.      (LAUGHTER)      BIDEN:  OK, Bill.  Thanks for having me.     