
            	BIDEN in Iraq on 8th Visit
             September 6, 2007 
    Washington, DC - Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee Joseph R. Biden, Jr. (D-DE) is in Iraq today (September 6th) on his eighth visit to the country since 2002.   "The President told us that the purpose of the troop surge was to buy time for political reconciliation at the national level.  During my trip to Iraq, I hope to gauge first-hand the prospects for - and progress towards - that goal," said Sen. Biden.  "I also will be discussing with military officials and our troops on how they are being served by us - are they getting the equipment they need?  Are they getting it fast enough?  What more can we in Congress do to keep them safe while they are on the ground in Iraq?"   On this trip, Sen. Biden will meet with Iraqi national leaders in Baghdad, tribal leaders in al Anbar, U.S. officials on the ground and troops to determine first-hand whether there is any prospect for political reconciliation in Iraq - the central objective of the surge.  At the same time, he will be examining whether focusing our military and political efforts at the local and regional level is more likely to produce results.  He will also be briefed by military officials and talk to our troops on their equipment needs- specifically the Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP) Vehicles, for which Sen. Biden has been a key advocate.   "I want to see and hear for myself whether the progress the President has talked about is real," added Senator Biden.   Sen. Biden has been a staunch proponent of a detailed plan that would allow us to leave Iraq without leaving chaos behind.  Sen. Biden advocates separating the warring parties - the Sunnis, Shia and Kurds - giving them breathing room in their own region, unified by a limited central government.  This plan would not be a foreign imposition as some have suggested - it is in fact, based on the provisions of Iraq's constitution that call for creating a federal system of government, with strong regions and a limited central government.  Sen. Biden has also urged the Administration to bring in the international community - including the permanent members of the U.N. Security Council and Iraq's neighbors - to support such a political settlement in Iraq and to convene a conference with Iraqis to help them reach that settlement.   