
            	New law helps track sex offenders
             August 7, 2006 
 This op-ed originally appeared in THE STATE NEWSPAPER on August 7, 2006.New Law Helps Track Sex OffendersBy Sen. Joseph R. Biden Jr. (D-Del.) Today in our country there are as many as 150,000 convicted sex offenders who have fallen through the cracks; 150,000 sexual predators lurking in our neighborhoods and jeopardizing the most vulnerable among us.In the words of John Walsh, host of Americas Most Wanted, it is time to close the door. The Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act, which was signed into law last month, will do just that. Plain and simple, this legislation will save children's lives.Twenty-five years ago, John and Reve Walsh lost their son when Adam was abducted from a suburban mall and subsequently killed. The Walsh family, like others I have worked with over the years, has taken this unimaginable nightmare and turned it into a call to action. John created Americas Most Wanted and has been a tireless advocate for legislation like this ever since.Congress has done a great deal before and since Adam was abducted to protect kids. We created the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children in 1984; we enacted the crime bill in 1994; and we set up the Amber Alert system in 2003. But every time we have done something significant, the bad guys have figured out a way around it.We require that our nations 600,000 sexual predators be tracked. But the bad guys are taking advantage of loopholes, and about 20 percent are currently unaccounted for.The Adam Walsh Act is about uniting 50 states in common purpose and in league with one another to prevent low-life sexual predators from slipping through the cracks.This new law starts at the beginning by requiring convicted sex offenders to register prior to release from prison. We also make sure we keep tabs on everyone who poses a threat to our kids. While the Internet puts the knowledge of the world at a childs fingertips, it can also be abused and perverted by sexual predators. That is why the Adam Walsh Act adds the use of the Internet to facilitate or commit a crime against a minor as an offense that could trigger registration.And once someone is on a sex offender registry, we also need to ensure he can't go back to hiding in the shadows. Under this law, child predators are required to periodically check in personally with the authorities. They also need to update their photographs, so law enforcement and parents will know what they look like now.If a registered sex offender fails to comply with any of these requirements, he or she faces up to 10 years in prison, and the U.S. Marshals  the most underrated, underestimated part of American law enforcement  will bring its expertise and energy to the task of tracking down these dangerous individuals.One of the biggest problems in our current sex offender registry system happens when registered offenders travel from one state to another. Thats why this new law fully integrates and expands the state systems so that information will be shared instantly and seamlessly among them. When a convicted sex offender moves into your neighborhood, your police need to know about it.We also mandate a national sex offender Web site that is searchable by geographic radius and ZIP Code so that parents can easily and quickly find out who is living in their neighborhoods.It has taken us months and years to enact this important law, and it has been a true bipartisan effort. Sen. Orrin Hatch has been a true leader, and I was very proud to work with him in achieving a bipartisan consensus to protect our children.We cannot bring back the kids whom the Walsh family and others like them have lost. But we can do everything we can to protect the living. This law serves as a monument to these families and our best attempt to fix a currently broken system.It also should serve as a reminder that our job of protecting our kids is never done and one that requires continuing and constant vigilance. I know that John and Reve Walsh  and the other inspiring families that have pushed for this law  will make sure of that.Sen. Biden represents Delaware in the U.S. Senate. 