
            	Adding troops will fail again
             January 7, 2007 
 The News JournalAdding troops will fail againBy JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.Sunday, January 07, 2007As President Bush prepares to announce a new strategy for Iraq, one idea has emerged as his leading option: to surge more troops into Baghdad in a last-ditch effort to stabilize the city.There is one big problem with that option: In the absence of a political settlement among Shiites, Sunnis and Kurds, it will not work. We've tried the military surge option before and it failed. If we try it again, it will fail again.And surging our forces in Baghdad risks terrible consequences: more American lives lost and more unbearable strain on our military for no strategic gain. If the president proposes escalation, I will oppose him and so will many of my colleagues in Congress.Here is what happens: Our troops retake a neighborhood. But because we do not have enough overall manpower to keep them there and because the Iraqis do not have enough competent troops to hold the ground we take, as soon as we leave, the vacuum fills right up again with insurgents, militia or criminal gangs. Our enemies simply wait us out.That is exactly what happened this summer. We sent a Stryker brigade and several Army battalions to Baghdad, bringing our total force there to about 15,000. As long as our troops occupied the ground they had taken, violence abated. But as soon as they moved to another neighborhood, it swelled with a fury.Our generals know this, including Gen. John Abizaid, senior commander in the Middle East, and Gen. Pete Chiarelli, who has been in day-to-day command of our troops in Iraq. Both reportedly oppose escalation. So does Colin Powell, who said, "I am not persuaded that another surge of troops into Baghdad for the purposes of suppressing this communitarian violence, this civil war, will work."If the president decides to surge troops anyway, it would make a mockery of his repeated claims that when it comes to troop levels and military strategy, he listens to our commanders.Many Americans wonder how it can be that with an active-duty army of 500,000 and more than 2.6 million men and women in uniform, we cannot send an additional 30,000 to 40,000 troops to Baghdad and keep them there long enough to maintain a lid on violence and to give Iraqis a chance to reconcile.The answer is that our military is not designed for long- term occupations. And we should increase its active-duty end strength.Three and a half years into this war, we cannot maintain our current force level in Iraq - about 140,000 - much less send additional troops without doing real damage to the military. That includes sending soldiers back on third and fourth tours; extending deployment times from 12 to 18 months; ending the practice of a year at home between deployments; fully mobilizing the Guard and Reserves; and returning demobilized soldiers to Iraq through a back-door draft.Over time, the impact on retention and recruitment would be devastating.In the meantime, more Americans would die in a futile effort to retake a city that cannot be pacified by military force alone.Those who advocate escalation fail to see that the main challenge in Iraq is a sectarian cycle of revenge. Even if every al-Qaida-inspired terrorist left Iraq tomorrow, we'd still face a major civil conflict pitting Sunnis, Shiites and Kurds against one another. Putting more troops into the middle of this mess cannot work.Indeed, those who support a surge have it exactly backwards: in Iraq, security is not a prerequisite to a political settlement. Rather, a political settlement is a prerequisite to security. And they have no workable plan to produce that political settlement.So what should we do? I have my own very specific ideas for how America can help Iraqis overcome their sectarian divisions.Those interested in the details can consult the website www.planforiraq.com.But there are other ideas for the best way forward and we need to give them a hard and unbiased look.That is the inquiry that my Republican counterpart Sen. Richard Lugar and I will hold in the Senate Foreign Relations Committee starting this coming week.Over three weeks of intensive and extensive hearings, we will hear from the administration, but also from the leading proponents of alternative plans, and from the foremost experts on the political, economic and security situation in Iraq and the region.We hope to shed light on the question most Americans are asking: What options remain to start bringing our troops home from Iraq without trading a dictator for chaos. 