
            	Biden Calls National Attention to Prescription and OTC Drug Abuse
             June 7, 2007 
 Washington, DC U.S. Senator Joseph R. Biden, Jr. (D-DE), Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime and Drugs, introduced S. Res. 225 today, designating August 2007 as "National Medicine Abuse Awareness Month."  The Resolution encourages parents to educate themselves and to talk to their teens about the dangers associated with medicine abuse.   "We can't just put a lock on the medicine cabinet and think our children and teens will be safe.  Over-the-counter and prescription drugs are too easy and cheap to come by," said Sen. Biden.  "Teens are misinformed if they think legal' drugs are safe in any dose and when not prescribed by a doctor.  They are flat wrong and we've got to do a better job teaching kids and parents about the dangers of medicine abuse."   Although abuse of over-the-counter and prescriptions drugs is not a new phenomenon, the Internet has become an information superhighway for teens and adults looking to abuse them.  Teens can surf the Internet and purchase unfinished Dextromethorphan (DXM), one of the main ingredients in cough and cold medicines, and learn how to abuse it to get high.  Furthermore, rogue Internet pharmacies are a contributing problem to mass abuse of prescription pain killers and other powerful drugs.  And, an alarming number of teens report obtaining these medications from a friend or relative, most likely from a medicine cabinet.  Recent media coverage of the dangerous and potentially fatal practice of taking these medicines non-medically has helped put the issue on parents', teachers' and emergency professionals' radar screens.     Estimates suggest that between 6 and 11 million people aged 12 or older are using prescription pain relievers for non-medical reasons.  The Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) recently reported that misuse of prescription drugs is second only to marijuana use as the nation's most prevalent drug problem.  In fact, more people recently started using pain relievers non-medically than started using marijuana, which is the most widely abused drug in the country.  According to the Partnership for a Drug-Free America, 1 in 10 teens reports having abused over-the-counter cough medicines to get high, and more than 1/3 of teens mistakenly believe that taking prescription drugs is much safer than using street drugs.   In an op-ed published in the Community Anti-Drug Coalitions of America Newsletter (Spring/Summer 2007), Senators Biden and Chuck Grassley (R-IA) - a cosponsor of this Resolution - wrote:  "The last thing a parent wants is to become his or her child's dealer.'  But that is precisely what happens when they leave medications lying around at home. . . .  [A] false perception of the dangers and a cheap, accessible high [have] put our teens in grave danger and we must act quickly and decisively to protect them."   "Nicknames like Skittles, Robo, Tussin and Triple C make using DXM sound as safe as eating candy - but it isn't," said Senator Biden.  "Designating August National Medicine Abuse Awareness Month' will help call attention to this national problem by encouraging parents and teens to learn about and discuss the serious and life-threatening consequences of all types of substance abuse, especially over-the-counter and prescription drug abuse."   For more information about medicine abuse or ways to talk about the dangers of abusing medicine, please visit the Partnership for a Drug-Free America and Community Anti-Drug Coalitions of America websites at www.drugfree.com and www.cadca.org.  The Consumer Healthcare Products Association (CHPA) has joined with the Partnership for a Drug-Free America in designing a website specifically for teens, www.dxmstories.com. 