
            	Biden Introduces Resolution Commemorating International Women's Day
             March 7, 2007 
 Washington, DC - In an effort to celebrate the many contributions of women throughout the world and call attention to the plight of those still struggling for equality, U.S. Senator Joseph R. Biden (D-DE), along with nine women Senators, has introduced legislation to designate March 8, 2007 as International Women's Day.  In too many places around the world, women are still discriminated against and denied full economic and political equality, said Senator Biden, who is the Chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee. International Women's Day shines a much needed spotlight on this problem and reaffirms our commitment to ensuring that women everywhere are given equal access to education, healthcare, and economic opportunities.   Senators Barbara Boxer (D-CA), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), Hillary Clinton (D-NY), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Mary Landrieu (D-LA), Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), Patty Murray (D-WA) and Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) are cosponsors of the resolution.  Senator Biden cited several recent elections as hallmarks of women's political empowerment:  In 2007, Representative Nancy Pelosi became the first female Speaker of the United States House of Representatives; in 2006, Michelle Bachelet was elected as the first female President of Chile and Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf became the first female President of Liberia and in all of Africa; and in 2005, Angela Merkel was elected as the first female German Chancellor in history. Senator Biden commended the extraordinary achievements of these women leaders, while noting that equal footing in the political process is one of many areas where progress is needed.   Access to education, economic security, employment non-discrimination, eradication of poverty, equality before the law, access to HIV/AIDS prevention and other health care services, and freedom from gender-based violence, including human trafficking, are all critical benchmarks of women's progress, said Senator Biden.  That's why International Women's Day is also a perfect opportunity for the Administration to review its position and support ratification of the International Women's Rights Treaty.  Formally known as the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW), the International Women's Right's Treaty defines women's economic, social, cultural, civil and political rights. Often called the Bill of Rights for Women, the International Women's Rights Treaty requires member countries to adopt a national agenda which appropriately addresses discrimination and violence against women.  To date, 185 countries have become party to CEDAW, yet the United States continues to stand with the likes of Iran, Afghanistan, Syria, and Sudan in remaining outside the treaty.   This is not the company that our country should keep, said Senator Biden.  I wholeheartedly support this human rights treaty that brings together in one document women's economic, social, cultural, civil and political rights and urge my colleagues to do so as well.  This year's theme for International Women's Day is Ending Impunity for Violence Against Women and Girls, a poignant reminder that gender-based violence is pervasive in war-torn regions around the world such as Iraq, Afghanistan and Darfur.  In Darfur, women are systematically raped as a weapon of war.  In Afghanistan, Safia Ama Jan, became the first female assassinated since the fall of the Taliban.  And just last week, two Iraqi women accused the Iraqi national security forces of gang-raping them in Baghdad headquarters.    International Women's Day is a chance for us to reiterate that message to the nascent governments in Iraq and Afghanistan - empowering your country's women is the key to lasting peace and prosperity, said Senator Biden. The United States should assist by providing critical resources to help support and empower women and girls around the globe - an articulated priority of this Administration, but as of yet, an unmet goal. Senator Biden, also alarmed at the prevalence of domestic abuse around the world, noted that domestic violence causes more deaths and disabilities of women worldwide than cancer, malaria, traffic accidents and war combined. Globally, one of every three women is beaten in her lifetime, usually by a family member or someone known to the victim. In the United States, one out of every six women and girls has been sexually abused in her lifetime and one-third of all women murdered annually were victimized by current or former partners. Violence against women is the quintessential global issue, said Senator Biden, who also authored the landmark Violence Against Women Act. It strikes in wealthy and poor countries alike, and plagues disparate cultures. Our attention and efforts to eradicate violence against women must not wane, and indeed, we need to redouble our efforts. Unfortunately, we live in a world where violence and discrimination against women is endemic. It is our moral obligation to keep up the fight as long as these ugly realities persist. 