
            	Biden Champions Legislation to Fund 9/11 Recommendations
             March 7, 2007 
 Washington, DC - U.S. Senator Joseph R. Biden, Jr. (D-DE) introduced an amendment to the 9/11 Commission bill (S.4), which would create a designated Homeland Security Trust Fund to pay for the implementation of all the 9/11 Commission recommendations, invest in local law enforcement, and make other critical homeland security upgrades.  Passing the 9/11 bill without a funding mechanism is like putting a steak dinner on the table without a knife, Sen. Biden said.  It looks good and smells good, but you don't have the tools or resources you need to get the job done.  This amendment solves that problem and will help ensure that funding is available to do what we need to do to secure our homeland.  Sen. Biden advocates immediately implementing the recommendations made by the 9/11 Commission. In December 2005, the 9/11 Commission assessed the Administration's progress implementing their recommendations, giving them a report card full of Ds and Fs.  Only 5 percent of cargo containers are adequately scanned at our nation's ports and we currently do not scan air cargo.  First responders are still hindered by poor communications technology, running a risk of another widespread communications failure like on September 11 or during Katrina.   It is unacceptable that 6 years after the September 11th attacks, our homeland remains vulnerable at our seaports, at our airports, on our streets and within our ranks.  We know what we have to do to correct these problems - we just have to make some hard choices and do it.  The 9/11 bill helps with that, but the amendment I'm offering today is a way to walk and chew gum at the same time:  secure the homeland while keeping our fiscal house in order,  Sen. Biden said.  In 2006 alone, the Bush tax cuts for millionaires exceed $45 billion, whereas the amount dedicated for the Department of Homeland Security is only $34 billion.  Senator Biden's legislation would take back some of the tax cuts for people making over $1 million a year in order to put $10 billion a year ($53.3 billion over 5 years) into a Homeland Security Trust Fund. The Trust Fund - to be used exclusively to protect our homeland - would be used to: -Fully implement the recommendations of the 9/11 Commission;-Enhancing port security and promoting 100% scanning of cargo containers;-Enhancing aviation security and promoting scanning of air cargo;-Ensure emergency personnel can communicate effectively in the event of an emergency;-Enhance research, development and deployment of new screening technology at sea and air ports; and-Invest in our public health system to ensure capacity to respond to biological, chemical, radiological attacks or pandemics. The Homeland Security Trust Fund is modeled after Sen. Biden's successful creation of a Violent Crime Reduction Trust Fund as part of the landmark 1994 Crime Bill.  This trust fund ensured that funding was available to fund the COPS program and other critical crime prevention programs.  The guaranteed funding made available from this trust fund was a significant part of reducing crime for eight straight years. Securing our homeland against threats, including those from international terrorism, requires the same fiscal commitment we exhibited in fighting crime during the 1990s.   To ensure that legislation is translated into concrete steps to make America safer, we must fund it.  This new Homeland Security Trust Fund will help ensure that our efforts to protect the homeland exist not just in the statute books, but in our cities, neighborhoods, railways, airports, and ports, Sen. Biden said.    