
            	ABCs This Week with George Stephanopoulos
             November 7, 2005 
 This is a partial transcript of ABCs THIS WEEK WITH GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS from November 7, 2005.   GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS, Host: I'm George Stephanopoulos in Washington. And today on This Week, Senators Joseph Biden and Chuck Hagel, both looking at a presidential race.   Senator Biden, let me begin with you. Your friend from Nebraska here seemed very impressed with Judge Sam Alito. He basically endorsed him and said Democrats should give Judge Alito an up or down vote for the Supreme Court. Will Democrats commit to giving him that up or down vote or is a filibuster still on the table?   SENATOR JOSEPH BIDEN (D-DE): Well, my instinct is we should commit. I have not met him yet. I, I've contacted people on the 3rd circuit. He's from my home circuit, who have positive things to say about him. They say he's very conservative. And I think that, that judgment won't be made, George, 'til the bulk of us have had a chance to actually see him and speak to him. But I think the probability is that will happen, but, but I, but I have not spoken to him yet.   GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS:  But he is exceptionally well qualified, 15 years on the federal bench.      SENATOR BIDEN:  What do you mean by well qualified? George, look...      GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS: Well, what I mean by, let me, well, let me spell it out first, since you asked. Fifteen years on the federal bench, solicitor general, prosecutor, Yale and Princeton educated. And my question then is, can you filibuster on judicial philosophy alone?   SENATOR BIDEN: Absolutely.      GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS:  And you, and, but you're not saying you're going to do it yet, but you're saying that is open?      SENATOR BIDEN: No, I'm not saying we're going to do it. But you're asking whether we can. Look, that's what the Bork nomination was all about. It was the first time everyone was honest about it. Look, after Harriet Miers all of the, all, all, all of the, you know, the smoke has been blown away. Everyone, left, right and center believes you should be able to know what the judicial philosophy of the nominee is. Look at all the people who said that we shouldn't ask Roberts what his philosophy was. And then along came Miers and every one of them, in, in an organized campaign on the center right and the far right said, 'we've got to know what her philosophy is. They're right. They had a right to know what her philosophy was. Now I know. Everybody knows. Everybody knows. The hypocrisy is gone. Everybody knows we have a right to know what the judicial philosophy of a nominee is.   GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS: Do you agree with that?      SENATOR CHUCK HAGEL (R-NE): Sure. I think that's part of the process and I don't see anything wrong with that. That is, advise and consent clause in the constitution, and we should know that. And that was, as Joe said, one of the problems with Harriet Miers. No one was quite sure what that judicial philosophy was because there was no record. But I think Judge Alito is eminently qualified, not just because of all the credentials that you listed, but he has a record. It's a solid record. Joe's right. I think you could say, philosophically, he's a conservative judge. I happen to be a conservative Republican, but that, that should not dictate, in my opinion, the only reason I would vote for him or hope that he would be on the bench. It's a, it's a grouping of qualifications and dynamics and judicial philosophy as one that the Senate must go through.   GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS: Do you have any qualms at all about Judge Alito or does he have your vote?      SENATOR HAGEL: I don't have any qualms about him unless something obviously comes out of nowhere. I doubt that's going to happen. He's been on the bench for 15 years. He is a well-known commodity here. And I will vote for him, enthusiastically. I think he represents the best of judicial prudence and style and records and qualifications.   GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS: Let me ask you about something you said in Iowa this week. You said that the indictment of Lewis Libby and all of the other fallout from the CIA leak scandal has hurt the president's credibility at home and abroad. How does he get it back?   SENATOR HAGEL: I think he gets it back by governing, putting a focus on competent, honest government. That means being part of, with the Congress, of addressing the issues that face this country, face this world, open it up, don't stonewall. I mean, for example, I think the administration is making a terrible mistake in opposing John McCain's amendment on detainees and torture. Why in the world they're doing that, I don't know. You've got 90 Senators out of 100 and that includes many Republicans opposed to it.   GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS:  But, but what...      SENATOR HAGEL: My, my, my point is, George, to answer your question, you, you've got to widen the net, widen the lens of governance, be direct and honest and competent, and you get the credibility back. Because there's only one currency in government, in anything in life, and that's trust. And if you debase that currency, you can't govern.   GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS: So, in being direct and honest, what does the President need to say about this CIA leak story?      SENATOR HAGEL: Which CIA leak story?      GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS: The indictment of Lewis Libby, the involvement of Karl Rove. We know that Karl Rove spoke to Matt Cooper about, of 'Time magazine about Mrs. Wilson, which was classified information.   SENATOR HAGEL: Well, I think, because it now is in the courts, Mr. Libby was arraigned last week, the prosecutors have it. I'm not sure the President can do, should do anything about it now. But the President - should be, in my opinion, reviewing and analyzing and putting some deep perspective into who's around him at the White House. And if I was the President, I, I think I'd, I'd want to - enlarge and widen that group and start making some serious review and inventory of what has happened in the last five years that's gotten him into so much trouble.   GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS: Senator Biden, we have an ABC News poll out this week that says, I think 59%, let me show it now, 59% of the public believe that Karl Rove should resign. Do you agree with that?   GRAPHICS: SHOULD KARL ROVE RESIGN?      GRAPHICS: YES, 59%      GRAPHICS: NO, 30%      SENATOR BIDEN: Look, that's above my pay grade. It seems to me that, to respond to what you asked Chuck, is the President has three big problems. He has a - significant problem in Iraq, a significant problem with oil, a significant problem with the White House and all three relate to credibility. I think he needs to lay out a plan what he's going to do in Iraq, how we're going to get our troops home, and how we're going to do that and maintain our interest there. I think he has, I think he should keep to his word. He said, anybody involved in this, he didn't say anybody committing a crime in the White House. He said anybody involved in this leak should go. He should be a man of his word, bang. He should clear, clean house. And, and...   GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS: So that involves Karl Rove.      SENATOR BIDEN: Of course, yeah.      GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS: That was Senators Joe Biden and Chuck Hagel. I'm George Stephanopoulos for This Week.      To visit ABC's This Week web page, go to:  ABCNews.com   