
            	DELAWARE'S POLICE DEPARTMENTS, CRIMINAL JUSTICE COUNCIL RECEIVE OVER $300,000 TO FIGHT CRIME
             September 7, 2007 
 Wilmington, Dover Chiefs praise funding as boost to local forces   WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Senator Joe Biden (D-DE), author of the seminal 1994 Biden Crime Bill, today announced three grants that will provide local officials with the help they need to prevent and combat crime throughout Delaware. The three grants - two Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grants and Project Safe Neighborhoods grant - total over $304,000 in funding.   The Wilmington and Dover Police Departments are the beneficiaries of the Byrne Grants, while the Delaware Criminal Justice Council received $90,890 from the national Project Safe Neighborhoods, which is dedicated to reducing gun crimes.   "While these funding levels are lower than I've pushed for, this is important help for our state," said Senator Biden. "It's not a complicated formula: the better equipped our local officials are, the more effective they can be in fighting crime. Local law enforcement is the front line in keeping our families safe, and we need to do all we can to ensure they have what they need."   The grant announcements were met with praise from Wilmington Chief of Police Michael Szczerba and Dover Chief Jeffrey Horvath. Both noted the crucial help Byrne grants provide in a time when departments are often forced to make difficult budgetary decisions.   "In the past, Byrne Grants have enabled our department to bolster our effectiveness in keeping countless guns off our streets and placing gun carrying repeat felons in jail," said Chief Szczerba. "I'm confident that we will be able to continue those efforts with this funding."   "Although the goal of the Dover Police Department is for our officers to have the very best of training and equipment, we are under a constant struggle to stay current with modern technology against a backdrop of fiscal responsibility and budget constraints," said Chief Horvath. "We are thrilled to receive outside funding like this, so we can purchase the equipment we need."   Wilmington's Police Department will use their $175,662 to reduce the sale and possession of illegal firearms. Dover will spend their $37,509 on digital in-car camera systems and training for an accident reconstructionist, among other expenditures.   