
            	Delaware Delegation Announces Newark Company to Receive Air Force Research Grant to Advance Intelligence Technology
             April 8, 2005 
 Wilmington, DE - Quantum Leap Innovations, Inc., a cutting-edge software development firm located in Newark, Delaware, has been awarded a contract by the Air Force Research Lab to create, develop, demonstrate and evaluate an intelligence sharing system designed to better anticipate and preempt potential threats to the United States, Delawares Congressional Delegation announced today. The system will enable government agencies to more quickly and efficiently share sensitive information, allowing for faster decision-making based on better data in matters of national security.   The Quantum Leap project team will collaborate with leading scientists, technologists, software engineers, and developers from across the country and in a variety of technical fields.   In the past few years, we've become acutely aware that our intelligence community needs to become more cohesive, said Senator Joe Biden. This project is just what the doctor ordered  and hopefully, in the end, it will provide a real solution to a very real problem. Quantum Leap was awarded this contract because they understand that we've got to get the right information to the right people at the right time in order to be safer as a nation. It's going to start right here in Delaware because we've got the science and technology to do it.   Last year Congress passed a historic overhaul of the nation's intelligence community after the 9-11 Commission showed that a failure to share information and link anti-terrorism efforts contributed to the attacks in New York City and Washington, D.C., said Senator Tom Carper. Last week, a new report said our intelligence community completely miscalculated Iraq's intent to develop weapons of mass destruction. The Quantum Leap project will help correct the obvious flaws in our intelligence network and facilitate information-sharing among the various agencies. In short, projects like this should make for a more cohesive intelligence network, one that will better protect the American public -- and indeed, the world -- in the future.   The threats our country faces today are not the same threats we will face in the future. To respond to these evolving threats, we have taken major steps toward improving intelligence communication, coordination and cooperation, which will address our need to adapt, respond, and prevent future terrorist attacks. The 9/11 Commission took the first step in implementing this intelligence overhaul and was followed by another giant step forward with the landmark legislation passed by Congress last December. The Quantum Leap project will move us yet another step toward our goal by facilitating information-sharing among the various agencies that are crucial to coordinating our intelligence, said Representative Mike Castle, a former eight-year member of the House Intelligence Committee and participant in the Joint Inquiry into the 9/11 Terrorist Attacks.   Quantum Leap Innovations was founded in 1999. They work with both private companies and government agencies to research and implement state-of-the-art technologies and software.  