
            	Delaware Congressional Delegation Sends Letter to Chrysler CEO
             February 8, 2007 
 WASHINGTON, DC -- Delaware's Congressional Delegation - Senators Joe Biden (D-DE) and Tom Carper (D-DE) and U.S. Representative Mike Castle (R-DE) - today sent a letter to the Chief Executive Officer and President of the Chrysler Group, highlighting the State's efforts to keep the Newark Assembly plant viable.  The Delegation sent the letter following extensive discussions that have been ongoing for several months regarding the company's strategic review of its North America operations, most likely resulting in a consolidation and/or shut down of some of its operations.   The Delegation and Governor Minner met with Chrysler CEO and President, Tom LaSorda, on January 7th during the North American International Auto Show.    The complete text of the letter follows:  February 8, 2007  Mr. Thomas W. LaSordaChief Executive Officer and PresidentChrysler Group1000 Chrysler DriveAuburn Hills, Michigan 48326-2766  Dear Mr. LaSorda:   As you know, for the past several months, state officials and our congressional delegation have engaged in extensive discussions with you, Dr. Zetsche, and your corporate leadership regarding the future of the DaimlerChrysler Newark Assembly plant.  Throughout this process, one thing stands clear:  the State of Delaware has played a key role in the success of your company and will continue to work with you to ensure the viability of the Newark plant.   We understand that the Chrysler Group will soon complete the process of reviewing its North American operations in an effort to produce products that the public desires within a business model that restores profitability.  As you finalize your plans, we would like to emphasize once again that, with our support, the Newark Assembly plant can play a vital role in the future of DaimlerChrysler in the United States.  The plant has been a model for innovation and has an established workforce that has proven repeatedly its commitment to productivity and quality.    Our congressional delegation has been especially attentive to the needs of the domestic auto industry.  For years, we have worked with DaimlerChrysler, GM, and Ford on issues involving national policy in order to help you compete in the global marketplace.  We realize that all three companies are facing difficult financial challenges.    During our trip to Detroit on January 7, 2007, it became clear that the federal government could do more to improve the competitiveness of the industry and its ability to develop energy-efficient and alternative-energy vehicles.  Since then, our delegation has engaged key leadership in the U.S. Congress, members of the President's cabinet, and even held direct discussions with President Bush in our effort to bring to bear federal government policy and resources to help DaimlerChrysler and the industry produce energy-efficient cars that will meet consumer interest and that will reduce our dependence on foreign oil.    In response to concerns about the issues affecting the auto industry in our state, our legislature passed landmark legislation to address workers compensation reform in the first week of this General Assembly.  In addition, we understand that our Governor, Lieutenant Governor, and their economic development team have put forth an impressive package of incentives that warrants close consideration.   As you approach a final decision, we ask that you consider the commitment made by the thousands of current and past employees of the Chrysler Group in Delaware.  For over twenty-five years, we have worked as partners with your company.  Working together, we can ensure the future viability of the Newark plant and your company for years to come. 