
            	CBS's Face the Nation
             May 8, 2005 
 This is a partial transcript from CBSs FACE THE NATION from May 8, 2005.   ANNOUNCER: Face the Nation, with chief Washington correspondent, Bob Schieffer. And now, from Washington, substituting for Bob Schieffer, CBS News chief White House correspondent, John Roberts.   ROBERTS: And good morning to you from Washington on this Mother's Day.      And joining us now from Delaware is Senator Joe Biden. And here in our studio with us, Senator Dick Lugar of the Foreign Relations Committee. Good morning to both of you, and thanks for being with us.   LUGAR: Morning.      BIDEN: Morning.      ROBERTS: Appreciate it.      Senator Biden, let's start with you. John Bolton, the president's nominee for ambassador to the United Nations, is scheduled for a vote in the Foreign Relations Committee this coming Thursday the 12th. Is that vote going to go ahead?   BIDEN: Well, I expect it's going to go ahead. We still need some additional information from the State Department. One thing both Dick and I agree on that needs to be forthcoming is those so-called intercepts, and what action Mr. Bolton took relative to these intelligence intercepts, if any. And two, a place where the senator and I disagree, relative to matters relating to whether or not he tried to stretch the envelope on intelligence matters.   ROBERTS: Let me get to some of those details in just a second.      But Senator Lugar, can the Democrats stop this vote from going through? Do you think he's going to be confirmed? Do you have all your Republicans on board?   LUGAR: Well, certainly Democrats or Republicans could stop the meeting from being very material. We will have a meeting on Thursday at 10:00, and it will end by 3:00, and we hope to have a vote. But there are any number of parliamentary ways in which the vote could be prevented. Republicans, I suspect, will vote in favor of John Bolton.   Democrats, I suspect, will vote unanimously against him. I think the vote may be 10 to eight. But I have no idea when the vote will happen. I hope we can have it then. We've tried to work with our friend Joe Biden to bring about a civil five hours of debate, evenly divided, so that all the issues could be resolved.   And I share a hope the Intelligence Committee will work with us to get the intercept information. I think the case has been made by Democrats that they believe that John Bolton has been among members of the administration who tried to stretch intelligence. It's an important point.   But nevertheless, no Democratic votes have been changed, as they've been discovering this. Whether the public has changed its mind, I think, is doubtful.   ROBERTS: All right. There were four Republican senators who were voicing their concerns, first and foremost among them, Senator Voinovich, who's in Slovenia, I believe, today. Have you got his vote? Are all the Republicans going to vote?   LUGAR: Oh, I'm not -- don't want to make a comment on each of the Republican votes. They will vote their wisdom and their conscience. I've been indicating that I believe they'll vote in favor of John Bolton at the end of the day, and I hope at the end of the day is on Thursday somewhere between 10:00 and 3:00.   ROBERTS: Senator Biden, last week you sent some letters to Secretary of State Condi Rice, which I have in my hand. You had to send another one yesterday, a request for these documents and this information. At the very end, you say that, I would consider a failure to provide the documents to be a lack of cooperation.   BIDEN: That's correct.      ROBERTS: Are you getting a lack of cooperation from the State Department? And if you don't get what you want, what are you going to do?   BIDEN: Well, we'll cross that bridge (inaudible). I'm assuming we'll get what we want. All we're asking for is the same kind of things that we asked for with regard to Negroponte, and it wasn't an issue.   Look, the real issue here is, how far did John Bolton stretch the truth, or try to stretch the facts, relating to intelligence? The New York Times today, the fellow who headed up an intelligence agency,said, When officials seek to remove from office analysts whose views they do not like, this is politicizing it. He goes on to talk about, The mere effort, even when it is successfully resisted, creates a climate of intimidation and a culture of conformity. And what we're asking about is, we want to get some data on four areas relating to Syria, Cuba, and others, that demonstrate whether or not he did or did not intend to do that, or attempt to do that. And we've not gotten that yet. And I hope we will.   ROBERTS: Well, let me put it to you this way. If you don't get that information, do you have all of the information you need to proceed to a vote on Thursday?   BIDEN: No, but I'm counting on having that information, and I'm counting on being able to have a vote within five hours after we convene our hearing on Thursday morning.   ROBERTS: Right.      Senator Lugar, it's somewhat confusing here to know, is Bolton the right person for the job, or not? President Bush says his blunt demeanor, and he's accused of being blunt himself on occasion, is just what the United Nations needs if it wants to get on the path of reform. Then on the other hand, former secretary of state Colin Powell's former right-hand person Larry Wilkerson, said it would be a mistake to confirm him. Who do we believe here?   LUGAR: Well, the president is the president. Now, you know, several of us have tried to be president at one point or another, but we can't all do that at the same time. We have a president. He has indicated he wants a blunt figure. He's used that term, just as you've stated, John, in a national teleconference not long ago. And said he himself, that is Bush, is blunt. And the United Nations needs reform.   Now, I have no doubt in all the testimony we've already uncovered, 31 people have been interviewed by the committee that John Bolton has been blunt, some would say even more than that. Some would say intimidating, abusive, trying to get people fired. But at the end of the day, nobody was fired. Peoples' feelings may have been bent out of shape. And the president is saying, Somebody that bends the feelings out of shape may be needed to wrench around the U.N.   Now, my own view is that the president deserves his person here. Dr. Rice, Condi Rice, says, This is our man. He's working for us. He will be reiterating the United States' position at the U.N.   Now, there have to be rather awesome circumstances, it seems to me, to say to the president of the United States, Too bad, Mr. President, you may think this is what is required for the U.N. and our foreign policy, our security, but you're wrong. As a matter of fact, an assistant secretary of state or somebody else has a better idea.   ROBERTS: Well, we'll know a little bit more about it in the coming days.      Let's move on to Iraq. Senator Biden, 300 people have been killed in Iraq over the last 10 days. A U.S. security convoy was bombed by coordinated car bomb attacks yesterday, 22 people, including two Americans, dead. Are U.S. troops ever going to be able to come home from there?   BIDEN: Well, yes, if two things happen. One, if there's legitimacy to this government, or they're moving toward that. They provided two important spots to the Sunnis after considerable wrangling, the defense department, as well as the deputy prime ministership. Hopefully that will help.   But the real hard work's going to begin now, once the government is up and running and writing that constitution. So it needs to be legitimate and viewed as legitimate.   Number two, you have to provide them with capacity, and that is, the capacity to actually keep order, maintain order. And there, we're doing better, but we're not taking advantage of the international offers that have been made to train those Iraqi troops and forces.   And lastly, we've been very incompetent, quite frankly, in the distribution of the monies that we put in place to rebuild capacity, from electric capacity to sewer and water, et cetera, in Iraq, and creating considerable discontent.   I think we can still remedy all three of those, but it's a real long haul. We're going to be there until that capacity exists.   ROBERTS: Senator Lugar, any idea how long that's going to be? You know, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the outgoing chairman, Richard Myers, said the other day that the insurgency is as strong as it's ever been.   LUGAR: Well, he probably is right, given the record of the last week. Certainly the insurgents, who are apparently old Saddam types who really looked for a military coup for the overthrow of this fledgling government, are in operation in numbers, enough to kill a lot of Iraqis, and occasionally Americans who get in harm's way. I think it's a terribly serious predicament. I agree with Joe Biden, the training thing cannot be overemphasized. If the United States is serious -- and we are -- about withdrawal of many of our troops, if not most of them, there will have to be replacements of police, National Guard types, Army types, to bring some security.   Now we can count, I think, ultimately on some Sunnis who get tired of being killed. They will not be intimidated by Sunnis, whoever they may be. The Al Qaeda types that insinuate themselves in the country, another story. They have targets of convenience, the suicide young people, in horrible missions coming in there. That will require security at the borders, much more than policing the towns.   But that's of the essence, even while this constitutional framework gets underway. That constitution has to be written, it has to be ratified. Officers have to be elected. At the end of all of that, when Prime Minister Allawi, was prime minister, came over and talked to us, he said, We will talk about the withdrawal of the American troops, and it will be a mutually happy day.   ROBERTS: No question, though, it's going to be some time from now.      LUGAR: It appears that way.      ROBERTS: Right. President Bush just touched down in Moscow a short time ago. He's there for the 60th anniversary of the end of World War II. 60 Minutes tonight has an interview with Vladimir Putin, rare interview with him, in which Putin said of Iraq, he thought that it perhaps was President Bush's biggest blunder.   That said though, President Putin also said that now is not the time for the United States to withdraw from Iraq. Let's take a quick look at his comments to 60 minutes.   (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) VLADIMIR PUTIN, PRESIDENT OF RUSSIA (through translator): Democracy cannot be exported to some other place. This must be a product of internal domestic development in a society. But if the U.S. were to leave and abandon Iraq without establishing the grounds for a united country, that would definitely be a second mistake. (END VIDEO CLIP)   ROBERTS: So a little bit of tough talk there from Vladimir Putin, which must suggest, Senator Biden, that the friendship between President Bush and President Putin, while they claim it's strong, seems to have more than a little bit of tension in it these days.   BIDEN: Well, what Putin said is not any different than what our British, our French, our German, our Italian friends have said, that they didn't like the way, with the exception of the Brits, the way in which we went in. But once we're in there, we have to win.   And I would reinforce the -- I think it reinforces the point that they understand, Russia to France, that they have a stake in the outcome. And that's why I don't know why we're not reaching out more, particularly to the Europeans, to get them more involved in the training, get them more involved in the civil society, get them more involved in the process in Iraq.   But it's evidence of the fact that everyone understands, whether they like it or not, how we went in, that we must win. We must win. We must succeed.   ROBERTS: Senator Lugar, speak a little bit to the relationship between President Bush and President Putin. President Bush doesn't like some of what President Putin is doing these days, and he's very vocal about it. Putin doesn't like the fact that President Bush is vocal about it. Yet they're still trying to get along. They've still got a lot of business to do with each other.   LUGAR: Well, and they're going to do business. But President Bush doesn't like, nor do I, the fact that President Putin has talked about the Baltic states in terms of the 60th anniversary, as if they really shouldn't exist. Or worse still, Putin was in Georgia, rather, his forces are still there. He personally in Ukraine campaigning, talking about democracy can't be exported. He really didn't want to see very much of it in those situations.   We do have a fundamental disagreement on that. So President Bush, I think gently, is saying to his friend Vladimir Putin, Shape up in Russia. There really is a need for democracy and for freedom there if we're to have a relationship that's lasting over time.   ROBERTS: Russia, of course, is one of the other four partners  one of the other five partners, I'm sorry -- in the group of six who are trying to negotiate with North Korea to give up its nuclear program. There was some news out today that -- or yesterday, I'm sorry -- that North Korea may be preparing for a nuclear test. Do you believe it?   LUGAR: Well, let's say there's a hopeful sign there that the Russian ambassador weighed in finally and said, We think it's time for the six powers to meet again. Now, the Russians haven't been exactly very active among the six. If they can make a contribution here that jars the Chinese sensibility and some others so we get down to the negotiating table again, that could be very, very helpful.   ROBERTS: But what about this intelligence, that North Korea may be preparing for a nuclear test.      LUGAR: It may be. And certainly people are talking about caves being sealed, strange signs they haven't seen before, sort of hunkering down for an event. On the other hand, we in the world are saying, including Mr. El Baradei at the United Nations, Don't do it. This would be cataclysmic. This really is over the top.   ROBERTS: Senator Biden, what do you believe President Bush should do if the intelligence determines that in fact North Korea is about to undertake a nuclear test?   BIDEN: Well, I think you could make a pretty strong case that they are at least making it appear as though they're ready for another test. And they may very well be doing that. I think we made a fundamental mistake four years ago not having direct talks with the North Koreans, not negotiations, laying out, as we did with Libya, what the upside of a relationship is and what the downside is.   And treatment seems to me that notwithstanding the fact the six-parties talks should be reinvigorated, particularly the Russians the Chinese getting more deeply involved, we should be prepared to lay down, This is where we are, this is the benefit that will flow from you with (inaudible). This is the benefits that will flow from it. This is the consequences of not going forward.   It seems to me that now is the time to do that, while the six-party talks are under way, or simultaneous with them.      ROBERTS: Right. But can the United States allow a nuclear test to go forward if they determine it's imminent?      BIDEN: Well, they can't prevent it. The question is, what do we do if they do do that? And it creates a specter of options that are all very, very difficult if we fail in this negotiating effort.   ROBERTS: All right.      Senator Biden in Delaware and Senator Lugar here in Washington, thanks very much for being with us. Very much appreciate it.      And we'll be back in just a moment with our round-table discussion. Stick with us.      To visit CBS's Face the Nation website, go to:   CBSNews.com   