
            	Biden, White House Celebrate International Womens Day
             March 8, 2005 
  WASHINGTON, DC -- In an effort to celebrate the many contributions of women throughout the world and call attention to the plight of those still struggling for equality, U.S. Senator Joe Biden (D-DE) today introduced a resolution designating March 8, 2005 as International Women's Day.   In too many places around the world, women are still discriminated against and denied full economic and political equality, said Biden, the top Democrat on the Foreign Relations Committee. International Women's Day shines a much needed spotlight on this problem and reaffirms our commitment to ensuring that women everywhere are given equal access to education, healthcare, and economic opportunities.   International Womens Day is celebrated all over the world. Earlier today in Washington, DC, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and First Lady Laura Bush hosted an International Womens Day Forum. Senator Biden is marking the occasion by giving an address, sponsored by Lifetime Television, to leaders from the international womens community, anti-violence advocates, survivors of violence, and representatives from corporations about the status of women around the world -- from Iraq to Afghanistan to America.   The theme of this years International Womens Day celebration is: Gender Equality 2005: Building a More Secure Future. Biden noted that today, there are more than 40 armed conflicts being waged around the world in places like Afghanistan, Burundi, and the Middle East. Millions of women and children have been killed or maimed and sexual violence against women and young girls is on the rise in many war torn areas.   The United States should provide critical resources to help support and empower women and girls around the globe - an articulated priority of this Administration, but as of yet, an unmet goal, continued Biden, who later today will introduce legislation to help provide greater safety and security to millions of vulnerable women and children affected by war and natural disasters.  