
            	Larry King Interviews Senator Biden on CNN
             November 8, 2006 
 CNN Correspondent John King: By this time tomorrow, unless there's a dramatic change in Virginia, I think you will be telling Senator Biden he will be chairman.   Larry: Mr. Biden, senator, your reaction?       Biden: I'm looking forward to that, but I have a great relationship with Dick Lugar who is the chairman now and we may be able to set the standard for what a bipartisan committee should look like.   Larry: what happened do you think, Senator Biden, last night?       Biden: What happened Larry, was what we talked about a couple of weeks ago on your show. I think there's an overwhelming, overwhelming displeasure with the way the president has conducted his foreign policy and also, Larry, I think there is a cumulative effect of 26 years of conservative leadership in the country. I think they've closed the book on that, closed the chapter in that book of the sorta hard right conservative movement that started with Ronald Reagan, just as the Carter election -- and Im a big supporter of Carter, and was his national campaign chair, we, in 1980, the American people decided that the democratic philosophy that reigned from '32 to '80 didn't work anymore. I think that's exactly what happens has happened  I know no one else is saying that. I could be wrong. I think that's what happened in '06, last night and it's going to be up to the democrats to see if they can step up to the ball and offer a clear alternative.   Larry: Senator John McCain was with us last night. He weighed in on the Rumsfeld resignation shortly after it was announced. Listen to his reaction.   Biden: Okay.       Larry: Im sorry we dont have the clip. John King, what has been the reaction there on Capitol Hill?       John King: The reaction is a great sigh of relief, mostly that the president seems to have bought himself some time here, at least a temporary gesture of goodwill. Now Bob Gates will be coming in, and will be interested in Senator Bidens view. He was opposed some time ago, but I think Mr. Gates will be quickly confirmed, perhaps even before the end of the year. The president did not, though, Larry, say there would be any change in policy. In fact, he said he's the commander in chief and we need to keep the troops there until the job is done. The president is in a very tough political box now. The Democrats that appear will run both chambers of the congress. Many will say this president is a lame duck but he still has powers as the commander in chief and he is still in the middle of an unpopular war. On one hand John McCain is saying you need to send in more troops to make this right and Senator Biden and others are saying you need to start thinking about bringing the troops home, in an orderly way, not immediately, not right away, but start reducing the troop numbers. So the president is in a very difficult box. The president bought himself some time today. He did what advisors and senior Senators have been calling for a long time ago, that there should be a new defense secretary. We should get more when the report sits down with former secretary Jim Baker.   Larry: Senator Biden, what about Mr. Gates?       Biden: Im inclined to vote for him. I voted against him, remember Larry that was back in the days he ran the contra affair and the whole question of politicizing the intelligence community. I said at the time it's a tough call so I'm going to err on the side of voting against him. I'm inclined to err on the side of voting for him. His reporting has been on the ball here, John King. He's exactly right. It doesn't matter much unless the president is going to change his policy. If he's not going to do that, I think we're in real trouble. I think he he'll be in real trouble with republicans in the senate, not just democrats.   Larry: John, we only have a minute. When does he leave? When does Mr. Rumsfeld go, go?       John King: Senator Biden will get that vote, but I suspect they're already talking to John Warner, the chairman of Armed Services. And it looks like, unless there's some sort of a hiccup, they'll have hearings during the lame duck session of congress and it looks like Mr. Gates will be confirmed by the end of the year and Mr. Rumsfeld will leave.   Larry: So, Mr. Rumsfeld will stay until then?       John King: That's right. You don't want a vacancy in that job. President Bush made that clear today. While youre at war you need a defense secretary.   Larry: Thank you both very much, we will be calling of course on John King frequently and Senator Biden as well, and if things turn out as the Associated Press reports, if it holds in Montana he will be Chairman Biden.     