
            	Statement on Rumsfeld's Resignation, President's Press Conference and Iraq
             November 8, 2006 
 Washington, DC  U.S. Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr (D-DE) issued the following statement today in response to President Bushs press conference and Secretary Rumsfelds plans to step down as Secretary of Defense:  Listening to the President today, I believe he got the message that this election was about Iraq. He said a lot of the right things. He talked about the importance of Iraq in the election and the frustration of the American people. He talked about reaching out to the Democrats, to seek a bi-partisan way forward. I applaud him for that. Democrats want to work with him. Now we need to see him act on those words.  Secretary Rumsfeld did the right thing in stepping down. Despite our differences, I have profound respect for him and his public service. A change in leadership at the Pentagon matters substantively and symbolically. We need a fresh pair of eyes looking at Iraq. And we needed to send a message to the American people, to the Iraqis and to the world that we are serious about changing course. This does both.  That said, Iraq has always been and remains much bigger than Secretary Rumsfeld. The proof will be in the Presidents policies, not the administrations personalities.  We have a narrow window before 2008 kicks in to get a bi-partisan consensus on Iraq. Staying the course would be terrible for the national interest. It also happens to be against the political interests of both parties. Republicans dont want to run in 2008 with Iraq around their necks. Democrats dont want to assume the White House in 2009 saddled with a losing war.  The Baker-Hamilton commission is the most likely place to build that consensus. But even if there is a need and desire for a bi-partisan consensus, the question remains: around what? Whats the substance of the new policy?  To get out of this mess, weve got to understand that there is a sectarian civil war threatening to engulf Iraq. There is no military solution. The Presidents policy of trying to build a strong central government has not worked and will not work. There is no trust within the government, no trust of the government and no capacity to do anything.  Our only chance is a comprehensive political settlement which keeps Iraq together by giving Sunnis, Shiites and Kurds breathing room to run their own affairs, shares oil revenues, and gets Iraqs neighbors in on the deal. Thats the plan I laid out 6 months ago with Les Gelb and I believe its the only way to leave Iraq responsibly, with our interests intact and without trading a dictator for chaos. ### 
 Washington, DC  U.S. Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr (D-DE) issued the following statement today in response to President Bushs press conference and Secretary Rumsfelds plans to step down as Secretary of Defense:    Listening to the President today, I believe he got the message that this election was about Iraq. He said a lot of the right things. He talked about the importance of Iraq in the election and the frustration of the American people. He talked about reaching out to the Democrats, to seek a bi-partisan way forward. I applaud him for that. Democrats want to work with him. Now we need to see him act on those words.    Secretary Rumsfeld did the right thing in stepping down. Despite our differences, I have profound respect for him and his public service. A change in leadership at the Pentagon matters substantively and symbolically. We need a fresh pair of eyes looking at Iraq. And we needed to send a message to the American people, to the Iraqis and to the world that we are serious about changing course. This does both.    That said, Iraq has always been and remains much bigger than Secretary Rumsfeld. The proof will be in the Presidents policies, not the administrations personalities.    We have a narrow window before 2008 kicks in to get a bi-partisan consensus on Iraq. Staying the course would be terrible for the national interest. It also happens to be against the political interests of both parties. Republicans dont want to run in 2008 with Iraq around their necks. Democrats dont want to assume the White House in 2009 saddled with a losing war.    The Baker-Hamilton commission is the most likely place to build that consensus. But even if there is a need and desire for a bi-partisan consensus, the question remains: around what? Whats the substance of the new policy?    To get out of this mess, weve got to understand that there is a sectarian civil war threatening to engulf Iraq. There is no military solution. The Presidents policy of trying to build a strong central government has not worked and will not work. There is no trust within the government, no trust of the government and no capacity to do anything.    Our only chance is a comprehensive political settlement which keeps Iraq together by giving Sunnis, Shiites and Kurds breathing room to run their own affairs, shares oil revenues, and gets Iraqs neighbors in on the deal. Thats the plan I laid out 6 months ago with Les Gelb and I believe its the only way to leave Iraq responsibly, with our interests intact and without trading a dictator for chaos.   ### 