
            	Senators Biden and Cornyn Discuss Iraq on CNN Late Edition
             October 8, 2006 
 BLITZER: All right, Dana, stand by. We're going to have you back for our political panel discussion. That's coming up later this hour. Thank you.   And joining us now to weigh the impact of the Foley congressional page scandal and this week's surge of violence in Iraq and a lot more, two key U.S. senators. Senator Joe Biden is a Democrat of Delaware. He's joining us from Wilmington. He's the ranking Democrat on the Foreign Relations Committee. And Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas. He's joining us from Austin. He's a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee.   Senators, to both of you, thanks very much for coming in. And a quick overview from both of you. Senator Biden, you first. What is your bottom line assessment of this whole Foley scandal right now?   SEN. JOSEPH BIDEN (D), DELAWARE: Well, I think it's all about accountability, Wolf. And I think that, you know, we probably -- John and I and you live and work in the only accountable-free zone in the country, Washington, D.C. And I think it's cumulative. I think it goes beyond Foley. It's who's responsible.?   No one ever gets held responsible for anything. The mistakes in Iraq, the mistakes in 9/11, the mistakes -- no one's ever held accountable. And I think the public is really fed up with it.   BLITZER: What about that, Senator Cornyn?      SEN. JOHN CORNYN (R), TEXAS: Well, what Mark Foley did was deplorable. There's no question about it. And I'm glad that Speaker Hastert has said the buck stops with him. And he's called for a full investigation. We need to know the facts. What worries me that it's not lost on any of us that these revelations are coming, even though some of them apparently have been known for a long time, just within about a month of the election.   I hope we don't find out that some people sat on information just so they could leak it here a month before the election, to try to have an impact on the outcome.   BLITZER: The reporter who broke this story, Brian Ross of ABC News, says his original source was a Republican source, not a Democratic source, Senator Cornyn.   CORNYN: Well, there were I know at least two Florida newspapers that had some earlier e-mails, not some of the more reprehensible instant message e-mails that we've seen recently. And believe that they were relatively innocuous and did not even write the story. Obviously, I don't know the complete story. None of us do. That's why a full investigation is important and that people do be held accountable for what they've done and what they've failed to do.   BLITZER: The suggestion, Senator Biden, that Democrats or the liberal news media might be behind the timing of this story is coming not only from Senator Cornyn and other Republicans, but the speaker himself made that suggestion. Among other things, he said this. Listen to this.   (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)      HASTERT: We have a good story to tell. Our friends on the other side of the aisle really don't have a story to tell. And maybe they're resolving to another way to -- another political tactic.   (END VIDEO CLIP)      BLITZER: All right, it's a serious accusation that this is dirty politics at play. Senator Biden?      BIDEN: Let's assume it's true. What a dumb thing to say. What a silly thing to say. Here you've got these pages at risk. And the answer is, Democrats did it? Or the news media did it? I mean, think how that falls on the ears of average people all around the country. I just think, look, they are so tired, I think we're so tired of this sort of political-speak.   Look, this guy did a very bad thing. Other people may or may not have known about what he was trying to do. That's all this is about. Beginning, middle and end. Let's assume that, let's assume somebody sat on it. That person should be held accountable. You know why? Whether it was a news media person or anybody. Because it put at risk young women and men. In this case, young men. And so I just think this is what people I think really dislike about national politics.   BLITZER: All right. Senator Cornyn, you want to respond to that?      BIDEN: You know, the devil made me do it. CORNYN: Well, I actually don't disagree with what Joe just said, that we need to find out what the facts are and hold people accountable. If there have been people that sat on information and exposed some pages to additional risk because they wanted to save it and leak it here a month before the election, I think the American people need to know to know that, as well. We don't know. But that's why the investigation is so important. And those responsible are held accountable.   BLITZER: Here's what the former House speaker, Newt Gingrich, said the other day. Listen to this.      (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)      NEWT GINGRICH, FORMER SPEAKER OF THE U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES: I just find it interesting that nobody's out there saying, did Rahm Emanuel do this? Did George Soros do this? Who's had this information? This is three-year-old information. Why didn't it surface before this? Why does it surface only at a moment to do maximum damage to Republicans and in a way that is absolutely designed politically? And isn't that fairly despicable?   (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)      BLITZER: Senator Cornyn, the former top aide to Congressman Foley and to Tom Reynolds of western New York, Kirk Fordham, he says he told Scott Palmer, the chief of staff to the speaker, all about Foley's inappropriate contact with the congressional pages, young, male boys, three years ago. And he says, unfortunately, nothing was done.   CORNYN: Well, obviously, Mr. Fordham's got a story to tell. There are others who, I understand, disagree with him and tell a different account.   I'm sure we're not going to resolve, this morning, what the he said/ she said was in that case. And that's why the investigation is so important, by the department of justice, which, thankfully, the speaker of the House has called for them to conduct an investigation.   I understand they are doing so, perhaps even as we speak.      BLITZER: Do you think, Senator Biden, this issue, this Foley issue, the sex scandal on Capitol Hill, will or will not have an impact on the elections a little bit more than four weeks from now?   BIDEN: I think it will have an impact because of the way we're talking about it right now.      Look, let's assume that somebody killed Cock Robin and no one tells anything about it until just before an election. Somebody still did something really bad.   Let's not take our eye off the ball about what people knew and what they didn't know and whether or not they're responsible. And, look, I think my Republican friends in the House were in trouble, unrelated to this. The war in Iraq is a debacle. The president has not made a single right decision, in my humble opinion, with record to his policy in Iraq. He refuses to change.   I think this goes beyond that. But I think they're -- already there was some sort of slide. The idea that Republicans in the House were riding high and they were likely to clearly keep control but for this, I think that's also kind of silly.   BLITZER: Senator Cornyn?      CORNYN: Well, it's interesting to hear Joe Biden say the president hasn't made a single right decision in Iraq.      BIDEN: Right.      CORNYN: Seventy-seven senators voted to authorize the use of force there. And just when things get tough, then people start getting a little wobbly in the knees and want to cut and run.   That certainly is the wrong answer to a very grave danger, which is the central war on terror. The central front in the war on terror, according to Osama bin Laden and Al Qaida in Iraq.   So we have to adjust to the challenges. We have to meet those challenges, train Iraqi security forces so we can bring our troops home as soon as possible.   But just to say that every decision George Bush has made is wrong is not a policy. It's not an alternative.      BLITZER: Senator Biden, hold your thought. Because I'm going to let you respond to that. And we're going to move on, talk a little bit more about Iraq, the surge of violence forcing a rethinking of U.S. strategy. Also, North Korea: Will it test a nuclear bomb?   And later, we'll ask our political panel whether or not the speaker of the House of Representatives, Dennis Hastert, will survive the Foley scandal.   And coming up in our next hour, for our North American viewers, John Roberts hosts This Week at War, what to expect from Iraq, Iran and North Korea. Stay with us. We'll be right back.   BLITZER: Welcome back to Late Edition. I'm Wolf Blitzer, reporting today from New York. We're continuing our conversation with Democratic Senator Joe Biden of Delaware and Republican Senator John Cornyn of Texas.   Senator Biden, we're talking about Iraq, a serious split, a serious disagreement between you, many other Democrats and the president right now. Here's what the president said in Stockton, California this week. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)   BUSH: The stakes are high. The Democrats are the party of cut and run. Ours is a party that has got a clear vision and says we will give our commanders and troops the support necessary to achieve that victory in Iraq. We will stay in Iraq.   (END VIDEO CLIP)      BLITZER: All right, Senator Biden, you want to respond to the charge that you're the party of cut and run?      BIDEN: We are not the party of cut and run. I'm not a person calling for cut and run. The president of the United States has not given the military commanders all they've needed.   Does anybody believe we went in with enough troops?      Does anybody believe that, now we've trained up 500,000 Iraqis, that his policy of once they stand up, they can stand down makes any sense?   Does anybody think that, in fact, the president was right about the threat that we faced about weapons of mass destruction?      Does anybody believe the president was accurate when he said we'd be greeted as liberators?      Does anybody think the president was right when he said, just a couple months ago, we were going to go in and quell Baghdad by bringing in more American forces?   The fact of the matter is, everyone from John Warner on -- Republican leader of the Armed Services Committee -- knows there's a need for radical change in policy and a political settlement here.   There needs to be a political solution. And the president's talk about cutting and running is, I just think, absolutely ridiculous. The idea is, what is the president going to do to deal with this civil war?   What is he going to do to stem the violence?      What is he going to do to give us a chance to be able to leave responsibly?      And he says stay the course? That's the answer?      BLITZER: Senator Cornyn, the American public would appear to agree with Senator Biden, based on a few recent polls.      The new Newsweek poll that's out this weekend asks, Is the U.S. making progress or losing ground in Iraq?      Twenty-nine percent said they're making progress; 64 percent said they're losing ground. And our recent CNN poll asked, How is President Bush handling Iraq?   Thirty-two percent approve of the job he's doing; 66 percent disapprove.      You've got a major, major problem with the American public only four weeks away from the election, Senator Cornyn.      CORNYN: Well, it's no question, Wolf, that what we are engaged in in Iraq is tough. But it's also important.      As General John Abizaid has said -- the head of Central Command -- he said, sure, we can bring our troops home today. But the enemy will follow us here.   This is not George Bush's Vietnam because, after the Vietnam War, the Viet Cong didn't threaten to bomb our major cities and innocent civilians in the United States.   This is a matter of us enabling the Iraqis to secure themselves, deal with their political problems...      BLITZER: Let me interrupt, Senator Cornyn, for a moment and play for you what Senator John Warner, the chairman of your committee, the Senate Armed Services Committee, said upon returning from a visit to Iraq last week.   And as you know, he's been a strong, ardent supporter of the president from day one. But he came back very, very worried. Listen to this.   (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)      WARNER: In two or three months, if this thing hasn't come to fruition, and if this level of violence is not under control, and this government able to function, I think it's the responsibility of our government internally to determine, is there a change of course that we should take?   (END VIDEO CLIP)      BLITZER: Now, that range a lot of alarm bells, especially over at the White House, Senator Cornyn.      CORNYN: Well, I have enormous expect for John Warner, the chairman of the Armed Services Committee. But I'm not clear what change that he is advocating or if he is advocating a change. Obviously, we want the Iraqis to deal with their political problems, to quell the sectarian violence and to establish peace so we can bring our troops home as soon as possible.   But it won't happen by dictating to the Iraqis how they should run their affairs. It won't happen if we set arbitrary timetables for bringing our troops home that will only embolden those who right now seem to have the upper hand. So, I think we have to be careful about this. This is enormously serious because it's not just about Iraq. It's about a radical ideology, Islamic Extremism. And one that threatens us, not just in Iraq, but Afghanistan, Iran and other parts of the Middle East.   BLITZER: Let me shift gears briefly to North Korea, Senator Biden, because there's a lot of concern the North Koreans will actually go forward with a nuclear test. It could have come this weekend. It hasn't happened yet. But what if anything should the U.S. be doing now to try to prevent North Korea from engaging in such a nuclear test?   BIDEN: Wolf, I'll respond to that. Iraq is not about a radical ideology. Our ambassador, General Abizaid, our General Casey said, this is about a civil war. If every single jihadist in the world were eliminated tomorrow, we still have a major war on our hands in Iraq and no plan to win it. No way -- we have a plan how not to lose it. But no plan to win it.   That's what General Casey's saying. That's what General -- our ambassador's saying. That's what General Abizaid is saying. They are saying that this is not -- this is about a civil war.   It also has the added downside of having jihadists there, as well. But if every jihadist in the world was killed, we still have a major civil war that our folks are caught in the middle of. And no one is calling for an arbitrary date to come home.   North Korea, there are two tests here in North Korea. One is our diplomacy and the support of our allies in the region. They've got to get tougher. And we've got to be willing to talk. I heard former Secretary Baker on a rival show earlier this morning. He was asked about talking. He said, I've always found that you don't need to talk to your friends. You've got to talk to your enemies. You've got to make sure you know what's at stake. You've got to make sure you know what's possible here.   I don't see -- and Dick Lugar and myself, and John McCain and others have been talking for four years. We should deal directly with, not negotiate, just lay down, have a straight out, flat out talk with North Korea to find out -- let them know exactly what our bottom line is and find out whether there's any possibility of them ceasing and desisting from their going forward. But the failure to talk at all seems to me to make absolutely no sense.   BLITZER: We are out of time, so we have to leave it there, unfortunately. Senator Biden, Senator Cornyn, a good serious discussion. Thanks to both of you for coming in.   