
            	Senator Biden Appears on CNN Late Edition
             October 8, 2006 
 BLITZER: Welcome back to Late Edition. I'm Wolf Blitzer, reporting today from New York. We're continuing our conversation with Democratic Senator Joe Biden of Delaware and Republican Senator John Cornyn of Texas.   Senator Biden, we're talking about Iraq, a serious split, a serious disagreement between you, many other Democrats and the president right now. Here's what the president said in Stockton, California this week. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)   BUSH: The stakes are high. The Democrats are the party of cut and run. Ours is a party that has got a clear vision and says we will give our commanders and troops the support necessary to achieve that victory in Iraq. We will stay in Iraq.   (END VIDEO CLIP)      BLITZER: All right, Senator Biden, you want to respond to the charge that you're the party of cut and run?      BIDEN: We are not the party of cut and run. I'm not a person calling for cut and run. The president of the United States has not given the military commanders all they've needed.   Does anybody believe we went in with enough troops?      Does anybody believe that, now we've trained up 500,000 Iraqis, that his policy of once they stand up, they can stand down makes any sense?   Does anybody think that, in fact, the president was right about the threat that we faced about weapons of mass destruction?      Does anybody believe the president was accurate when he said we'd be greeted as liberators?      Does anybody think the president was right when he said, just a couple months ago, we were going to go in and quell Baghdad by bringing in more American forces?   The fact of the matter is, everyone from John Warner on -- Republican leader of the Armed Services Committee -- knows there's a need for radical change in policy and a political settlement here.   There needs to be a political solution. And the president's talk about cutting and running is, I just think, absolutely ridiculous. The idea is, what is the president going to do to deal with this civil war?   What is he going to do to stem the violence?      What is he going to do to give us a chance to be able to leave responsibly?      And he says stay the course? That's the answer?      BLITZER: Senator Cornyn, the American public would appear to agree with Senator Biden, based on a few recent polls.      The new Newsweek poll that's out this weekend asks, Is the U.S. making progress or losing ground in Iraq?      Twenty-nine percent said they're making progress; 64 percent said they're losing ground. And our recent CNN poll asked, How is President Bush handling Iraq?   Thirty-two percent approve of the job he's doing; 66 percent disapprove.      You've got a major, major problem with the American public only four weeks away from the election, Senator Cornyn.      CORNYN: Well, it's no question, Wolf, that what we are engaged in in Iraq is tough. But it's also important.      As General John Abizaid has said -- the head of Central Command -- he said, sure, we can bring our troops home today. But the enemy will follow us here.   This is not George Bush's Vietnam because, after the Vietnam War, the Viet Cong didn't threaten to bomb our major cities and innocent civilians in the United States.   This is a matter of us enabling the Iraqis to secure themselves, deal with their political problems...      BLITZER: Let me interrupt, Senator Cornyn, for a moment and play for you what Senator John Warner, the chairman of your committee, the Senate Armed Services Committee, said upon returning from a visit to Iraq last week.   And as you know, he's been a strong, ardent supporter of the president from day one. But he came back very, very worried. Listen to this.   (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)      WARNER: In two or three months, if this thing hasn't come to fruition, and if this level of violence is not under control, and this government able to function, I think it's the responsibility of our government internally to determine, is there a change of course that we should take?   (END VIDEO CLIP)      BLITZER: Now, that range a lot of alarm bells, especially over at the White House, Senator Cornyn.      CORNYN: Well, I have enormous expect for John Warner, the chairman of the Armed Services Committee. But I'm not clear what change that he is advocating or if he is advocating a change. Obviously, we want the Iraqis to deal with their political problems, to quell the sectarian violence and to establish peace so we can bring our troops home as soon as possible.   But it won't happen by dictating to the Iraqis how they should run their affairs. It won't happen if we set arbitrary timetables for bringing our troops home that will only embolden those who right now seem to have the upper hand. So, I think we have to be careful about this. This is enormously serious because it's not just about Iraq. It's about a radical ideology, Islamic Extremism. And one that threatens us, not just in Iraq, but Afghanistan, Iran and other parts of the Middle East.   BLITZER: Let me shift gears briefly to North Korea, Senator Biden, because there's a lot of concern the North Koreans will actually go forward with a nuclear test. It could have come this weekend. It hasn't happened yet. But what if anything should the U.S. be doing now to try to prevent North Korea from engaging in such a nuclear test?   BIDEN: Wolf, I'll respond to that. Iraq is not about a radical ideology. Our ambassador, General Abizaid, our General Casey said, this is about a civil war. If every single jihadist in the world were eliminated tomorrow, we still have a major war on our hands in Iraq and no plan to win it. No way -- we have a plan how not to lose it. But no plan to win it.   That's what General Casey's saying. That's what General -- our ambassador's saying. That's what General Abizaid is saying. They are saying that this is not -- this is about a civil war.   It also has the added downside of having jihadists there, as well. But if every jihadist in the world was killed, we still have a major civil war that our folks are caught in the middle of. And no one is calling for an arbitrary date to come home.   North Korea, there are two tests here in North Korea. One is our diplomacy and the support of our allies in the region. They've got to get tougher. And we've got to be willing to talk. I heard former Secretary Baker on a rival show earlier this morning. He was asked about talking. He said, I've always found that you don't need to talk to your friends. You've got to talk to your enemies. You've got to make sure you know what's at stake. You've got to make sure you know what's possible here.   I don't see -- and Dick Lugar and myself, and John McCain and others have been talking for four years. We should deal directly with, not negotiate, just lay down, have a straight out, flat out talk with North Korea to find out -- let them know exactly what our bottom line is and find out whether there's any possibility of them ceasing and desisting from their going forward. But the failure to talk at all seems to me to make absolutely no sense.   BLITZER: We are out of time, so we have to leave it there, unfortunately. Senator Biden, Senator Cornyn, a good serious discussion. Thanks to both of you for coming in.   