
            	Floor Statement: Bidens Billion Dollar Initiative Will Put More Cops on the Streets
             September 8, 2005 
 MR. BIDEN: Mr. President, I have a number of things to say today but the bottom line of what I am proposing here is an amendment to the Commerce-Justice-Science Appropriations bill relating to law enforcement and cops. The bottom line is, and I will explain this briefly, but number one, I propose adding $1.019 billion to assist local law enforcement, support victims of domestic violence and sexual assault, and deal with some aspects of the impact of hurricane on local law enforcement.   Secondly, this amendment contains $1 billion for the policing services, a so-called COPS program. Providing $700 million for hiring local officers, and it provides $300 million for interoperable communications equipment for local agencies. If we ever need any evidence of the fact that we need that equipment and need more of it, I think Katrina has demonstrated that, unfortunately.   It also contains $10 million for the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children to help find and reunite children displaced by Hurricane Katrina. And it adds $9 million to support victims of domestic violence and sexual assault impacted by what happened during this crisis.   Mr. President, it sounds like a lot of money, and it is a lot of money. But Mr. President, we have made a serious, serious mistake relating to our domestic security, our homeland security, and our need to deal with the looming threats that flow from not only national disasters like we're facing now and, pray to God, we won't face another one like this, but from the threat of terror spoken to by my friend from Missouri.   We over in 1998 we were aiding local law enforcement collectively by $2.4 billion a year. And although there's been some correction made, this Administration proposed cutting that direct aid to local law enforcement down to $117 million.   I find that mind blowing. I find that as misplaced and misunderstood and a misrepresentation as I do the failure to provide cut money for levees and cut money for the corps of engineering that we've done the last four years. So, Mr. President, this is an attempt to not restore all but restore part of the assistance that we provided for local law enforcement in the past.   Mr. President, the devastation caused by Hurricane Katrina has revealed the best and the worst about our great nation. It's revealed the great economic divide that exists among our citizens while it demonstrated as well the capacity of the majority our citizens to be compassionate and even heroic during times of great need. It also exposed the demons of some who will use any opportunity to prey on the weak.   The hurricane also demonstrated the best and the worst in our government. It is clear by all accounts that the federal response was insufficient, and we'll be discussing that in the coming days and weeks and months to come and hopefully address the concerns so that, God forbid, faced with this or a terror attack we will not go through the same degree of incompetence. That seems spreads across the governmental front.   It seems clear to me that we have to do more to support state and local law enforcement officials. These men and women in my opinion demonstrated the very best of our government.   The men and women in Biloxi and New Orleans and other police departments in the region have been working 24 hours a day, many of them have lost their homes, their families have been displaced. They have been working with limited food and water. Many of them don't even have the facilities to take a shower and use a restroom.   Lieutenant Benelli of the New Orleans police department stated -- quote -- I spent a year in Vietnam. The ordeal these officials have gone through has been as trying as the time I spent in Vietnam.   For everyone who argues that -- and I hear this a lot around here these days -- that law enforcement is a local problem -- I respect my colleagues who have this view -- but they're into this devolution of government stuff. You know, the new paradigm, they like to talk about. They talk about the new paradigm in foreign policy, they talk about a new policy in local law enforcement in terms of devolution of government.   Translated: that means that the only thing the federal government should do are those things which no state can do. Or put another way, the state can do any of what is required to meet the needs of their citizens. Only the states should do it.   So the argument is from men and women on this floor who are equally as adamant about fighting crime as I have been my years here, they're saying, we're going to eliminate -- they support eliminating the cops program. Why? They says it's not the business of the federal government. The federal government shouldn't be involved in local law enforcement. Well, I'd like to point out to you that 60% of all the crimes committed in America relate to drugs and abuse of drugs and the sale of drugs, illicit drugs. Is that a state responsibility or doesn't that stuff come across the border? Doesn't that stuff come from the Andes? Doesn't that stuff come from Afghanistan? Doesn't that stuff come from abroad?   You can have the best police department, the most significant -- and I'm proud -- I think we have the best in the nation  law enforcement agencies in the state of Delaware, and you can't stop the drugs coming down from the avenue in Philadelphia. And they cross state lines. And so I'd just respectfully suggest to you devolution government guys and women that federal responsibility exists as it relates to local crime and local law enforcement.   I'd like to point out another thing. God forbid we have an attack. Let's assume -- and it wasn't. Let's assume divers were planting explosives to blow up the bridge in the Mississippi as opposed to the Pontchartrain.   Who's going to find it? Is it designee to be some brave special forces officer in night vision goggles or is it going to be my son who is in the National Guard now down in Gulfport, Mississippi, patrolling the streets? Is he the one who's going to be doing that? No, it is going to be a local cop.   Who's going to find the guy, the woman, or the terrorist who's going to try to put sarin gas into the Houston Astrodome or the giant shopping mall? It's going to be some a local cop. I don't know what we're talking about here. Forget Katrina, which only makes the point more starkly. But forget it for a moment. What are we doing? What are we doing?   We had a great president named Reagan who said, if it ain't broke, don't fix it. Guess what? Nobody has argued the COPS program has not succeeded. No one has argued it's failed. The former attorney general when he said -- when it was time to eliminate it, I think the word he used was miraculous.   It's been a miraculous program. Let's cut it. Let's eliminate it. So, I would just make this suggestion: that local law enforcement is not purely a local problem.   Just look what's happening in the Gulf States right now. Mr. President, law enforcement is a national concern. It requires a national response and a national commitment. Local communities need robust police departments. They need superior communication technology and equipment. And I know my friends in the Commerce Committee know more about the spectrum fight  which I'll not get into now -- than most do. But the idea that there's not sufficient spectrum available to our first responders because the broadcast industry is unwilling to commit to the deal they made is beyond me, beyond me.   The local communities, they -- they're the ones that not only affect the overall security of the country but the day-to-day lives of their citizens by reducing crime. This also helps local governments be better at responding in periods of crisis. What could be more important--what could be a more important national priority than the safety of our citizens?   Mr. President, we simply haven't been doing right by our state and local government partners over the past few years. Throughout the 1990's we allocated, as I said, billions of dollars to local law enforcement, provided them with the technology they needed. We all know the story. We reduced crime each year for eight consecutive years and we're still reaping the benefits of those successes as crime rates still go down.   I'd like to point out one other simple fact. To the best of my knowledge, having chaired the Judiciary Committee or been its ranking member, for I think 17 years, and being on that committee for 30 years, to the best of my knowledge, there is no other time in American history when the cadre of those in their crime-committing years -- young people between the ages of 14 and 25 -- have increased and violent crime has gone down. Gone down.   This program has worked because the states have made it work. We reduced crime, as I said, eight years in a row. But we did more than reduce crime by this legislation we are  we've cut so drastically. We're also -- we've also demonstrated a commitment to local agencies. We increased their capacity to respond to any situations in the local communities. We have allocated only $2 million this year -- $2 million -- to our police officers. This will hire approximately 25 officers throughout the nation. Hardly a ringing endorsement of our local agencies.   Right now the COPS office has pending applications to hire 8,000 local officers that have been left unfilled due to lack of funds. The amendment that I'm offering today would provide $700 million to immediately fill these needs with special emphasis on filling the needs of those agencies in the devastated regions. The New Orleans police department in particular will need special assistance, and if these funds are allocated to the COPS office, it should work to support that agency.   We also know that network capabilities of agencies in the area have been destroyed. We need to help them get those networks back on-line so that they can continue to do their job. My amendment would add $300 million in current allocation of the $37 million which is all that's been allocated.   The COPS office has had an overtime program to help local agencies pay overtime. We all understand the need to assist local agencies as they've been working around the clock. But based on conversations with the Louisiana Association of Chiefs of Police and the National Sheriffs Association, it is my understanding that Federal Emergency Management Agency will be reimbursing local agencies for those costs. We have not included additional assistance for overtime.   Finally, we include $19 million for children that have been displaced and to support the domestic violence shelters that have been destroyed. The National Center for Missing and Exploited Children has reported that over 1,000 children have been displaced by this storm -- that means they're not with their parents or guardians -- and we in this amendment provide $10 million to that effort. We also provide $9 million to support domestic violence victims impacted by the storms. We all heard of the reports of sexual assaults in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina and we will support those victims that have not been moved to new shelters, this money.   In addition, this funding will support the shelters in Louisiana, Mississippi, and Alabama that have been impacted and will help support shelters in adjoining states that have been called upon to do much more in the coming months.   I think that all of my colleagues have heard me say that I believe there's not a more important responsibility in government than the safety of its citizens. It comes before their health, before their education, before everything. There are no civil liberties, there are no opportunities if you are not able to be safe on the street. Without safety and security, nothing else really matters.   Our local law enforcement agencies, they're there every day fighting crime or responding  every day fighting crime or responding to emergencies. And Hurricane Katrina demonstrated quite starkly how we rely on them. Federal support for these officers has been on a steady decline for the past few years. We need to reverse that trend, Mr. President.   This amendment will help us get back on track. I thank the chair, and I yield the floor.    