
            	Delaware Delegation Seeks Long-Term Noise Measurement System for Northern New Castle County
             February 9, 2005 
 WILMINGTON, DE -- In an effort to better gauge the increase in noise levels in northern New Castle County, U.S. Senators Joe Biden (D-DE) and Tom Carper (D-DE) and Congressman Mike Castle (R-DE) today urged the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to install more accurate and consistent, long-term noise monitoring technology in that area. This latest request is part of an ongoing effort by Delawares delegation, in conjunction with state and local officials to mitigate the negative effects that may result from increased air traffic and/or the expansion of the Philadelphia International Airport.   The text of the letter to FAA Administrator Marion Blakey follows:       We are writing to you regarding an ongoing and serious problem with airplane noise that continues to plague areas of Delaware, and recent efforts by the Federal Aviation Administration and the Philadelphia Airport to monitor noise levels.   As you are well aware, residents of the state of Delaware, particularly those living in an area known as Brandywine Hundred, have long been frustrated by noise caused by airplanes flying over their homes. There is a consensus among residents that these noise levels have increased significantly over the last five years and will continue to worsen as the Philadelphia Airport looks to expand its operations. Despite these concerns, the FAA and the Philadelphia Airport have yet to implement an adequate noise monitoring system that determines actual noise levels in these areas.   We refer you to two letters written in response to comments the FAA solicited related to its draft Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) conducted for the proposed Philadelphia Airport Runway 17-35 Extension Project. We believe these letters submitted by the Delaware Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control=s (DNREC) Coastal Management Program and Delaware=s Governor Ruth Ann Minner precisely sum up the problems with the monitoring conducted for the 17-35 project, and propose realistic and appropriate solutions.   Specifically, the state of Delaware is concerned with the Day Night Logarithm (DNL) measurement employed by the FAA, the length of time the monitoring was in place, and the actual locations of the monitors. They propose implementing a long-term noise monitoring system that provides much more detailed noise measurements from all its locations. They have also indicated their desire to be included in the process of selecting the locations for the monitoring equipment. We strongly support their recommendations and have enclosed copies of their correspondence for your review.   We think it is important to note that while these letters were written in response to project 17-35, an enhanced noise monitoring system should be in place independent of projects proposed by the FAA and the Philadelphia Airport. Airplane noise levels have been a concern for quite some time and will most likely continue to be after any proposed projects have been implemented. We would, of course, support measures included in proposed projects that would guarantee a reduction of airplane noise and will continue to work with you to improve the environmental impacts associated with airport expansion.   In closing, we respectfully request that you seriously consider these recommendations and look forward to hearing from you in the near future.  