
            	SENATOR BIDEN ANNOUNCES THE CLASS OF 2012 SERVICE ACADEMY NOMINATIONS
             January 9, 2008 
 Wilmington, DE - U.S. Senator Joseph R. Biden, Jr. (D-DE) announced today his nominations to the U.S. Service Academies for the Class of 2012. After an intensive review process of qualified students, Senator Biden nominated three principal nominees - or top candidates - who will be offered academy appointments should they meet all medical, physical and academic requirements.    "I am proud to nominate these gifted young men and women to carry on a proud Delaware tradition at the U.S. Service Academies," said Biden. "The next few years will be challenging - academically, mentally and physically - but I am certain that they will rise to the challenge and come through this experience well-equipped to join the world's finest military organization."   Senator Biden's three principal nominees (listed in bold) and competitive alternates are:   United States Naval Academy  Principal Nominee: William P. Rogers, Jr. at the Delaware Military Academy Competitive Alternates: William Abrams at the Tatnall School, Manuel Cuesta at the Delaware Military Academy, Daniel Fahey at St. Marks High School, Ernest Jackson "EJ" Halton at the Delaware Military Academy, Christopher Scott at Middletown High School, James "Tyler"Shields at Sanford High School, Micah Shute at Mt. Pleasant High School, Taylor Soer at Archmere Academy, and Brittania Vondrasek at A.I. duPont High School.   United States Air Force Academy  Principal Nominee: William Hanley at St. Thomas More Academy Competitive Alternates: Jacob Bartsch at St. Elizabeth High School, Manuel Cuesta at the Delaware Military Academy, Robert DeWees at Wilmington Friends School, Stephan Murphy at Salesianum School, Matthew Powell at Polytech High School, William Ross at Caesar Rodney High School, James "Tyler" Shields at Sanford High School.   United States Military Academy at West Point Principal Nominee: Robert Hall at Caesar Rodney High School Competitive Alternates: Jeffrey Barker at the Delaware Military Academy, Erinn Carter at the Charter School Of Wilmington, Daniel Fahey at St. Marks High School, Conor Hayes at Brandywine High School, Christopher Lafferty at Salesianum School, Megan Lewis-Taylor at Polytech High School, Stephan Murphy at Salesianum School and Walter "Lee" Vanaman at Sussex Technical High School.    United States Merchant Marine Academy Senator Biden also nominated four students to the Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point, New York:  Andrew Barnes at the New Mexico Military Institute, Eric Desch at Salesianum School, Brandon Markey at the Delaware Military Academy and Rory Rogan at Cape Henlopen High School.   Each year Senator Biden convenes an Academy Selection Board that interviews all service academy applicants and provides him with recommendations. The Board consists of representatives from New Castle, Kent and Sussex Counties. 