
            	Gov. Minner, Sens. Biden and Carper and Rep. Castle Dedicate the U. S. Senator William V. Roth, Jr. Bridge
             July 9, 2007 
 ST. GEORGES, DE - Today, the State Route 1 Bridge was officially named "The U.S. Senator William V. Roth, Jr. Bridge."    Delaware Governor Ruth Ann Minner, U.S. Sens. Joe Biden and Tom Carper, U.S. Rep. Mike Castle and state Secretary of Transportation (DelDOT) Carolann Wicks were all on hand to offer remarks about the legendary United States Senator who touched the lives of so many in Delaware.    The naming of the bridge was appropriate because Sen. Roth was instrumental in securing federal funds to construct the bridge, which was completed in December 1995.    A large crowd gathered, including the family and long-time friends of the Roth family. Also in attendance were the Army Corps of Engineers, DelDOT staff, former bridge engineers and those who helped construct the bridge, along with other dignitaries.    Judge Jane Roth and the family were presented with copies of the Roth Bridge legislation signed by the President Bush, and a replica of the bridge plaque bearing its new name.    The Senate approved legislation to name the State Route 1 Bridge over the Chesapeake and Delaware Canal after the late Sen. William Roth in 2005, and the House passed the bill on November 13, 2006, sending it to the president's desk for his signature. President Bush signed S. 1140 into law on December 1, 2006.   Sen. Roth was first elected to the House in 1966, serving two terms, before being elected to the Senate, where he served for 30 years. He also won the Bronze Star for his service in the U.S. Army during World War II. He died in 2003 at the age of 82.   "During his tenure in Congress, Sen. Roth was well known for his substantial contributions on a national level, but he was most loved here in Delaware for his caring responsiveness to his constituents and for the results of his accomplishments that surround us statewide," said Governor Minner. "This bridge dedication is yet another way we honor the memory of someone who truly devoted his life to public service and to the people of Delaware."   "Of all the places we could name after a man who dedicated 34 years to public service, a bridge is the most fitting," said Senator Biden. "Bill Roth was a bridge builder. He knew what he thought, knew what he believed - and very quietly, he built bridges of all kinds. It's my privilege to look out across this wonderful bridge and know that Bill is being honored in such a fitting way."   "Bill Roth is one of the finest men I have ever known," said Senator Carper. "Although Sen. Roth is remembered for many things, this Roth Bridge dedication is one more way for us to recognize him for his four decades of public services."   Bill Roth was a great Senator and friend to Delaware who set the gold standard in constituent services. His willingness to help Delawareans was immeasurable and I am proud to have worked with him. Naming this bridge in his honor will remind us of this man who gave tirelessly of himself for the people of Delaware, said Congressman Castle.    