
            	Biden Commends America's Firefighters in Honor of Fire Prevention Week
             October 9, 2007 
 Washington, DC - In honor of National Fire Prevention Week, U.S. Senator Joseph R. Biden, Jr. (D-DE), co-chairman of the Congressional Fire Services Caucus, commended the nation's firefighters who risk their lives every day to protect our neighborhoods.   "Every day, firefighters exemplify the strength and courage of the American people," said Sen. Biden.  "They respond to emergencies small and large - from kitchen and college campus fires, to natural disasters and acts of terrorism.  Their heroic efforts and selflessness, especially during Hurricane Katrina and September 11th, will never be forgotten."   Two years after President Woodrow Wilson issued the first National Fire Prevention Day proclamation in 1920, President Warren G. Harding declared the first Fire Prevention Week to be observed "by every man, woman, and child, not only during the week designated in the pronouncement, but throughout every hour of every day of the year."  Since 1922, Fire Prevention Week has been observed during the week in which October 9 falls to help commemorate the Great Chicago Fire of October 8-9, 1871, to educate the American public about fire prevention, and to honor the sacrifices of our nation's firefighters.   "Every year we learn that many of the tragic deaths resulting from fires could have been prevented with increased and diligent awareness techniques," said Sen. Biden.  "During Fire Prevention Week, we are reminded of how important fire prevention and escape planning can be, and we thank our firefighters who sacrifice their lives to keep our communities and our country safe."   Fire Prevention Week supports the work of firefighters to educate and protect our communities.  More than 1,130,000 firefighters protect the United States.  They provide lifesaving services, including emergency medical services, special rescue response, hazardous material and terrorism response, and public safety education.  In 2006, 89 firefighters lost their lives and over 80,000 were injured in the line of duty.     For more information about Fire Prevention Week, please visit the National Fire Protection Association online at www.nfpa.org.   ### In addition to his role as a founder and co-chairman of the Congressional Fire Services Caucus, Sen. Joseph R. Biden, Jr. (D-DE) is also President Emeritus of the Delaware Volunteer Firemen's Association.  In 2007, as in years past, Sen. Biden introduced a resolution declaring September Campus Fire Safety Month to encourage college administrators and local officials to enhance fire prevention services and programs on college campuses.  Sen. Biden authored the Benjamin Franklin Commemorate Coin Act, which became law in 2004, to honor the 300th anniversary of Franklin's birth and to honor Franklin's role as the founder of the nation's first volunteer fire department, the Union Fire Company, in 1736. 