
            	Key Senate Panel Votes to Renew Bidens Violence Against Women Act
             September 9, 2005 
 WASHINGTON, DC  The Senate Judiciary Committee unanimously approved a bill yesterday that will renew Senator Bidens landmark Violence Against Women Act for another five years. The bill, which expires on September 30, has broad bipartisan support and 48 Senate cosponsors.   The Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) of 2005 renews several successful programs and provides funding for training, education and outreach so that local, state and federal agencies can do a better job of preventing violence against women and assisting victims of domestic violence.   This legislation is critical to ensuring the safety and well being of our nation's most vulnerable citizens  women and children who need our help, Senator Biden said. I am happy to see the bill clear this major legislative hurdle and hope we can get it voted on by the full Senate and signed into law soon. This is a reaffirmation of our national commitment to stopping domestic violence and helping victims of abuse.   Senator Bidens original Violence Against Women Act established new federal crimes for domestic violence, sexual assault, and stalking. The law also created the National Domestic Violence Hotline (1-800-799-SAFE) and helped train police, prosecutors and court officials to more effectively treat victims of domestic abuse and sexual assault. VAWA grants also support local Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner (SANE) programs, which train registered nurses to conduct sexual assault forensic exams. It also enhanced protection for battered immigrants and helped raise public awareness about a long hidden epidemic in this country.   Since the original Violence Against Women Act was enacted in 1994, there has been a steep drop in reported cases of domestic violence and a 22 percent decline in women being killed by husbands or boyfriends. However, domestic violence is still widespread in America. According to the Department of Justice, more than 2.5 million women are victims of violence each year and nearly one in every three women experiences at least one physical assault by a partner during adulthood. Reports also indicate that up to ten million children experience domestic violence in their homes each year.   This is not the time to scale back our efforts. Instead, Congress must usher the Violence Against Women Act into the 21st century and plant the seeds with the next generation of children who must be taught that abuse will not be tolerated, concluded Biden.  