
            	CNN's Late Edition
             April 10, 2005 
 This is a partial transcript of CNN's LATE EDITION from April 10, 2005.   WOLF BLITZER, Host: Welcome back to LATE EDITION. Joining us now to assess where things stand with Iraq, the Israel-Palestinian peace process and more, our guests, the chairman of the U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Republican Senator Richard Lugar of Indiana; and the committee's top Democratic, Senator Joe Biden of Delaware. He's joining from us Delaware today.   Senators, thanks very much for joining us.       Mr. Chairman, I'll start with you. Jalal Talabani, the new president of Iraq, suggests two more years needed for U.S. troops in Iraq. That doesn't sound like a lot of time.   Is that realistic?       SEN. RICHARD LUGAR (R), INDIANA: Well, it probably is realistic in terms of the bulk of the troops. I think Talabani mentioned specifically that in that period of time he thought the Iraqi security forces would be sufficient to keep control.   But at the same time he added that there might still be insurgents, and he might also have added there might be hostile powers on the borders of Iraq that could be of interest to both Iraq and the United States.   So it offers, I think, the road map that both President Yawer and now the former prime minister Allawi gave when they were over here; namely the constitution formation, the election of the officers of the country at the end of this year or the beginning of next year and then serious talks with United States about withdrawal and the pace of that and what would be required.   BLITZER: Senator Biden, do you think that within two years the Iraqis can effectively take charge of their own security?       SEN. JOSEPH BIDEN (D), DELAWARE: Yes, I think that Dick summed it up exactly right. I think that's the single most important thing we have to be doing now is make sure that training is on target and that they have the capacity to govern.   They actually are having a real political debate, which is healthy. I meant it's interesting to see. It took them a while to form the government. They don't have the cabinet yet.   But the truth of the matter is, when you think about it in one respect, it's pretty darn healthy that they're actually engaged in a serious debate about serious issues.   I think by the end of '06 we're going to have a pretty clear picture of whether or not it's succeeding or failing. And success will be dependent upon a government that's representative and a capacity to govern in terms of security.   BLITZER: So you would estimate, Senator Biden, that between now and the end of 2006, the 140,000 U.S. troop level or at least more than 100,000 would probably still be needed?   BIDEN: No, what I'm suggesting is we'll sure know by then whether or not we're on the right trajectory. If we're in the trajectory I hope we'll be on, we will have probably drawn down additional troops during that period of time. And during the full 24- month period between now and then we, if all goes well, we'll be in a position where we have, I think, considerably fewer forces on the ground in Iraq.   And if things don't go well, I suspect you'll see the American people calling for us to significantly draw down anyway.       BLITZER: All right, let's move on and talk about drafting of this constitution, Senator Lugar. It's supposed to be done, and you heard President Jalal Talabani say he thinks they can do it by mid- August, August 15.   Do you think they can do it by then?       LUGAR: Well, I think the president's confidence is well-placed. He understands the urgency of this.       And I would just join Joe Biden's thoughts that it's miraculous they have come to this point with officers of the country that have general consensus. They've had to discuss many of the constitutional issues to get to that point.   Specifically: What is to be the place of the Kurds? How much autonomy? There has not been mention of how they've disposed of the Kirkuk and the oil resources question, but that's been a big part of these conversations.   These are people who have been practical politicians but they represent folks in Iraq who have warred with each other from the beginning of the country.   So this is an extraordinary turning point that in a practical, pragmatic way they are sitting down and talking about August 15, which is a short period of time away, but with thought that you have to do it if a referendum in the country, another full-scale election is to occur -- and then moving on to name, really, the leaders of the country, both administrative and parliament.   Those are important dates for us as well as for them for the reasons that you discussed earlier. And clearly the transition that proceeds this way will have a great deal more confidence with the American people.   BLITZER: This weekend, Senator Biden, marks the second anniversary of the fall of Baghdad. That statue of Saddam Hussein, as all of us remember, went down.   And yet at that same square this weekend, yesterday, these Shiites, the supporters of Muqtada al-Sadr came out in very big numbers not only demanding an immediate U.S. withdraw from Iraq but also demanding Islamic law take charge in Iraq and also making all sorts of other demands not necessarily something the United States would welcome.   How big of a problem is this Shiite minority within Iraq right now, the minority of the Shiites who want the U.S. completely out right now and don't want to cooperate with the United States?   BIDEN: I think they're a problem, but they're not that big a problem. Because if you notice the leaders of the two largest parties in Iraq, the man who has become the prime minister of Iraq is a Shia who has apparently (UNINTELLIGIBLE) he has specifically said he doesn't think it is time for the United States to leave. I think you're seeing a little jockeying within and among the Shias for control. Sadr is always a problem.   But what is unknown is to what degree will the sharia -- as you kept asking Talabani -- what degree will that be the law of the land, or will it be the Islamic state that has the influence of the sharia?   The question remains. It's one of the gigantic questions that will determine, quite frankly, not only our relationship, but, quite frankly, determine whether or not there is an ability of the Kurds and the Shia to stay in the deal together because the Kurdish instinct is very different than that.   And the big outstanding issue here is: How are we going to get the Sunnis, how are the Sunnis going to get engaged in this? Because no constitution that is going to be able to fly is going to be able to be written between now and August without greater Sunni participation.   BLITZER: Did you notice, Mr. Chairman, that some Sunni leaders are now urging fellow Sunnis, Iraqi Sunnis, representing about 20 percent of the country, to go ahead and join the Iraqi military, to join Iraqi police force, but to use them as an instrument against the United States from within the Iraqi military or police establishment?   That sounds very worrying to Americans.      LUGAR: Well, I have noticed that. And in three conspicuous cities of Iraq that apparently is the case. That is, the authorities of the government now have enlisted some other folks that certainly do not like us -- try to keep the peace there.   Now, usually the rationalization is that they have not had an opportunity -- that is, the government, to train enough people yet -- that they are too short and that failure to make some accommodations with these other folks would lead to chaos in the city. There may be some truth to this.   On the other hand, it is a part of a process that we're all going to have to witness. And that is: How do the Sunnis become integrated, how do even the forces of Sadr and Shiite community come into it? And they are jockeying for position within Iraq.   They want to show this new government they are still there and they have to be accommodated. Fortunately, American forces have not moved out of harm's way, but much of the fighting right now really comes down to Iraqis shooting at Iraqis. And likewise, criticisms of the justice system are coming to Iraqis.   BLITZER: We're going to take a quick break. But I want Senator Biden to wrap up this part of the discussion on Iraq. I sense, Senator Biden, and I have been listening closely to you for years on this subject, that you are a little bit more hopeful today than you were, shall we say, a year ago as far as the trends that we're seeing unfold in Iraq right now.   BIDEN: I am, Wolf. And the key here, though, I still think we should be forming a contact group where we get the EU and NATO and some of the G-8 heads of state to begin to sit down literally as an adviser group to the Iraqi government.   There's a lot of people willing to train Iraqis which could obviate some of the problems Dick was talking about. We have not taken advantage of that. The French offered to train a 1,500-officer corps. The Germans offered. The Egyptian offer, et cetera.   There is no rationalization of these outstanding offers that would, I think, if done together and in conjunction with a new Iraqi government so it's not just the U.S., would obviate some of the more obvious and extreme possibilities in terms of divisions within the Iraqi government as it relates to security.   The Peshmerga in the north, the Badr Brigade in the south, keeping those both alive, I'm not sure it's such a good idea. There has got to be an outside collective force here that helps them rationalize their security positions.   BLITZER: All right, Senators.       Stand by. We're going to take a quick break. We have much more to talk about including the hearings that you will have tomorrow on John Bolton to become the next U.N. ambassador.   And later, The New York Times columnist and author Tom Friedman. He joins me. We'll talk about why his trip to India not all that long ago made him believe the world is flat.   LATE EDITION will be right back.       (COMMERCIAL BREAK)      BLITZER: Welcome back to LATE EDITION. We're continuing our conversation with the chairman of the U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Richard Lugar, and the committee's top democrat, Joe Biden.   Tomorrow, Senator Biden, you start hearings on the confirmation of John Bolton to be the next U.S. ambassador to the U.N.       Listen to what The New York Times wrote in an editorial on Friday.       Mr. Bolton stands out because he is not only bad in a policy sense but also unqualified for the post to which he's been named. At a minimum, the United States representative to the United Nations should be a person who believes it is a good idea. Mr. Bolton has never made secret his disdain for the United Nations, for multilateralism, and for consensus-seeking diplomacy in general.   Will you vote to confirm him?      BIDEN: No.       BLITZER: No? Why?       BIDEN: Three reasons. One, I think that we'll find out that there seems to be that he apparently put some pressure on some analysts who did not like what he -- intelligence analysts that he sought to get fired for refusing to go along with his version of things as stated with regard to Cuba. He took out the offending comments but still seemed to pursue their being fired. In the post- 9/11 environment, that's a very bad idea.   Number two, I think that at the very time the president of the United States is relying more on the United Nations with regard to our efforts in the Sudan, with regard to our efforts in the Middle East, I think it's a bad idea to have a man there who doesn't have much regard for the U.N.   And lastly, he hasn't done a very good job where he has been, which is in charge of arms control and proliferation issues. Korea and Libya: The policies he suggested, I think, have been a failure. And so for all those reasons, I'm not going to vote for him.   But I'm going to give him a chance. We're all going to give him a chance to determine the first issue, which is whether or not he really did attempt to pressure the firing of two analysts who disagreed with what he wanted to say about Cuba.   BLITZER: All right. Well, let's talk a little bit about that.       Senator Lugar, you're going to chair the hearing tomorrow. At this point, I assume you'll vote to confirm it.       LUGAR: Yes, that is correct.       BLITZER: Well, what about the arguments that Senator Biden just made? LUGAR: Well, I think they are important. But let me just say that the president of the United States was only fairly recently re- elected. He believes that the United Nations needs to have reform. So does the secretary-general, Kofi Annan. Secretary Rice believes strongly that reform should occur.   And they have nominated John Bolton to be the instrument of reform. It is their strong choice. They've made that very clear.   I certainly take seriously that nomination. We've tried to move ahead with the cooperation of Senator Biden to have the proper hearings, to have a United Nations representative very soon.   Specifically on the issues of whether persons were pressured or intimidated, Senator Biden and Democratic staff have asked for five interviews to be conducted. And they have been conducted on Thursday and Friday with relevant personnel.   BLITZER: If you discover that John Bolton tried to get fired two intelligence analysts, careerists, not political appointees, but careerists, CIA, or other intelligence agencies, would you then reconsider your support for his nomination?   LUGAR: I might. But I've seen the transcripts of the interviews, gone carefully over all of this. And I do not see evidence that that occurred. Now, I appreciate that many people have views about John Bolton's personality, his bluntness, the way that he handles himself. I think this is their legion of situations. But these are not, in my judgment, disqualifiers for a presidential nominee who is going to the U.N. to create reform.   BLITZER: Have you seen these interviews yet, Senator Biden?      BIDEN: Some of them, not all of them. My staff was conducting some as recently as, I believe Dick, yesterday. And I was at the pope's funeral in Rome and just got back yesterday. And I have not had a chance. I will be doing that today with my staff.   BLITZER: Speaking of the pope's funeral, Senator Biden, I know you were obviously, like the rest of the world, deeply moved by what you saw. But given the fact that you were there at the funeral, did you return to the United States with a new appreciation of the challenges facing the Catholic church right now?   BIDEN: Well, as a practicing Catholic, I have appreciated the challenges facing my church and internally for some time now, Wolf. But the next pope is going to have an awesome responsibility. This is the first time -- I found it absolutely amazing is I sat there, Wolf, to be tapped on the shoulder of the man sitting behind me, to be the governor for northern Ireland. And he was there saying the mass in Latin with me. That was sort of an epiphany.   In front of me, there were three people wearing fezes. They turned out to be Muslims from Morocco. I found it absolutely astounding that so many people of varying faiths were there to pay the respects to Pope John Paul.   BLITZER: You have the last words, Senator Lugar. And you can talk about Pope John Paul II. Or if you can want to talk about the summit tomorrow between President Bush and Prime Minister Sharon, I'll give you an opportunity to assess the prospects for peace in the Middle East.   LUGAR: Well, Pope John Paul was a great champion of liberty. And that has been recognized worldwide and treasured during these last few days.   I think in the next day, specifically tomorrow, the need for peace is at hand with regard to the Palestinian and Israelis. A very tough set of talks in which our president will affirm support for Prime Minister Sharon as he tries to move ahead with settlements being removed from Gaza.   At the same time, we will affirm our need to proceed on the road map and not to stop at step two, which is the Gaza removal, to move on, to give confidence to the new Palestinian government that's going to have more elections and must have successful ones.   So our involvement there with the president tomorrow is extremely important. I hope there's follow-through now of really very successful intensive United States diplomacy to help both parties.   BLITZER: I suspect there will be. We'll see what happens. Senator Lugar, thanks as usual. Senator Biden, thanks to you, as well. Always good to have both of you on our program.   To visit Late Edition's web page, go to: CNN.com   