
            	Senator Biden Appears on ABC This Week
             December 10, 2006 
 SMITH: As I have studied history, I have never found an instance whereby victory is won by announcing retreat. I, for one, am tired of paying the price of 10 or more of our troops dying a day. So let's cut and run or cut and walk, but let us fight the war on terror more intelligently than we have.   (END VIDEO CLIP)       STEPHANOPOULOS: Senator Gordon Smith, Thursday night in the Senate. He joins us now live, along with the incoming chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Joe Biden.   And, Senator Smith, let me begin with you. That was clearly a deeply personal speech, and it showed a dramatic change of heart. What triggered it?    SMITH: Waking up the other morning and turning on the news and hearing that yet another 10 of our soldiers died the same way that several thousand have...    STEPHANOPOULOS:  Wednesday.       SMITH: Wednesday -- through roadside bombs. And I went from steamed to boiled. And I felt I had to speak out, because if we're going to be there, let's win; if we're not, let's at least fight the war on terror in a way that makes sense.    STEPHANOPOULOS:  You said in that speech the current policy may  be criminal.       SMITH: I said it -- you can use any adjective you want, George, but I have long believed, in a military context, when you do the same thing over and over again without a clear strategy for victory at the expense of your young people in arms, that is dereliction, that is deeply immoral.    STEPHANOPOULOS:  Yet, you also say the Baker commission report is  a recipe for retreat.  So what are you for?       SMITH: I am for fighting the war on terror against jihadists. When you get to being policeman in a sectarian civil war, that is not what the American people enlisted for. That's not what I voted for.   I voted for toppling a chief terrorist and tyrant, ridding him of weapons of mass destruction but not for being target practice in the middle of a sectarian strife that we see, where hundreds of bodies a day are pulled out of the Tigris River, Sunnis and Shias who are butchering each other, really, over the question of who has the rightful successor to Mohammed.   (CROSSTALK)       STEPHANOPOULOS:  You think it's time to leave?       SMITH: I believe that we have an ongoing interest in the war on terror. And Iraq is one of the battlefields. I believe we need to reposition ourselves in a way that allows us to take on the murders and the weapons of war that come across the borders of Syria, Saudi Arabia and Iran.   Ultimately, we want the Iraqis to make the political decisions  that will ultimately allow a government to emerge.       STEPHANOPOULOS:  Senator Biden, this seems like a watershed  moment.       BIDEN: It is. Look, George, two incredible things happened: one, the election of November 7; two, the Baker commission, my friend here and others in the Republican party, as well as the Democratic party.   And what they're saying, when you cut through it all -- either figure out how we're going to have traded a dictator for stability or leave. And that's a gigantic shift.   Everyone from John McCain, who says it a different way, to Joe Biden, to -- across the board -- is saying, we have one last shot to figure out how to deal with the chaos in Iraq. If we can't, you better get out.   And my view is, if you can't deal with the chaos -- and I have a formula how I would propose doing that. It's not apart from the study group's recommendations. But if you can't, you better disengage and contain.    STEPHANOPOULOS: The study group, actually, explicitly rejected Senator McCain's proposal for massive infusions of troops and took aim at a proposal like what you have called for. You want a federal system with more autonomy for different regions. And Secretary Baker had this to say about that.   (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)       BAKER: As a practical matter, such a devolution, in our view, could not be managed on an orderly basis. And because Iraq's major cities are peopled by a mixture of warring groups, a disorderly devolution would likely result in a humanitarian disaster or a broad- based civil war.   (END VIDEO CLIP)       STEPHANOPOULOS:  Your response?       BIDEN: He's right, but he misrepresents my position. The Iraqi constitution calls for a decentralized federal government. That's their words, Article One, decentralized federal government.   Number two, they've already voted, in their legislature, George, eight weeks ago, to put in what they call the implementing legislation, to provide for federalism, what their constitution calls for.   The Iraqis are already walking down that road. Secondly, the only other positive thing that's happened in Iraq, and I would argue it's because of the Baker commission report, is the Sunnis and Shia and the Kurds, according to the New York Times, have agreed, now, on an outline for the distribution of oil revenues.   Now, they're not finished yet.  But if they do that...       STEPHANOPOULOS:  We've gotten close before, haven't we?       BIDEN: Well, not this close. Because they've never before openly stated, all three, that they acknowledge that it has to be distributed and there has to be a way to deal with it.   And you know, you have the Kurds in the north, now arguing not whether it's distributed equally based on population, but who gets to decide which contracts are going to be let. But no argument anymore about the profits being distributed to the Sunnis, as well as -- who have no oil -- counting the Sunnis in.    STEPHANOPOULOS:  Senator Smith, your rhetoric does echo Senator  McCain's in some respect.      Do you think, as a practical matter, a major infusion of troops, now, is still possible? Or are we really talking about disengagement?    SMITH:  Well, listen, first of all, you have to answer:  Should  we be in the middle of an insurgency that is not ours?      But if you answer that question yes, then Senator McCain is right. The way you fight an insurgency is to clear, hold and build. What I have seen with my own eyes, on several occasions, is that we clear and we retreat. And the insurgents come back in.    STEPHANOPOULOS:  That's what Prime Minister Blair was saying, as  well, basically.       SMITH: That is just fundamentally wrong. And I'm tired of being told things are changing and continuing to see casualties through the same activity.    STEPHANOPOULOS: But then, your basic position, then, is that we do have to start to pull out. If I'm hearing you correctly, you're saying we're caught in the middle of a civil war.    STEPHANOPOULOS:  It doesn't appear we can solve it.  We have to  get out.      SMITH: Their civil war is theirs to answer. They are essentially political questions so that they can construct their country. We continue to have an interest, I believe, in a presence, on the near horizon, in order to continue to prosecute the larger war on terror.   And I'm all for training.  I'm all for logistics.  I'm all for  sharing intelligence.  And even interdiction.      But at the end of the day, I cannot, in good conscience, any longer support a policy which is essentially, let's hit them and then let's run back to the green zone.    STEPHANOPOULOS: Senator Biden, the Iraqis also seem to be reluctant to embrace the Baker/Hamilton commission. I want to show you what President Talabani said this morning about it.   (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)       JALAL TALABANI, PRESIDENT, IRAQ: I think that the Baker/Hamilton is not fair, is not just, and it contains some very dangerous articles, which undermining the sovereignty of Iraq and the constitution.   (END VIDEO CLIP)       STEPHANOPOULOS:  Does this mean the report is a dead letter?      BIDEN:  No, it means the report has moved this whole thing, man.  Think about this.  You don't hear anybody...       STEPHANOPOULOS:  He says it's dangerous.       BIDEN: No, he says it's dangerous, but what reason he says it's dangerous is, it calls for the embed of significant amounts of American forces indefinitely in every single Iraqi unit. Which means he's saying that means we, the Iraqis, will not control our own military.   That's what he's talking about. And also -- I know him fairly well, met with him a number of times, both in Iraq and outside of Iraq. And this is a guy who I think is really still focused on Kirkuk. It also says...    STEPHANOPOULOS:  He's a Kurd.       BIDEN: He's a Kurd. And Kirkuk is a city where the oil is, and that's a city that Saddam, as you know as well as I do, Arabized. He moved a lot of people up there and displaced Kurds. Now, the Kurds are coming back and want to displace those Arabs that are there.   And the report calls for -- no, no, no, a referendum -- no  referendum on Kirkuk.  And so this is...       STEPHANOPOULOS:  Kurds don't want that.      BIDEN:  No, the Kurds don't want that.  So you've got to read  between the lines what's up here.      But going back to the central premise here: No one, no one, no one but the president and the vice president is talking about if we're going to draw down American troops. Everyone is talking about how and when. That is a fundamental shift since November the 6th.    STEPHANOPOULOS: You've been a strong supporter of the president. Do you think he has the capacity or is prepared to announce a major shift in strategy, or are we going to see more of the same?    SMITH: I know President Bush very well. I know he agonizes over this issue day and night. It pains me to say what I'm saying right now, because he's more than my president, he's my friend.   But having said that, I believe he has spent way too much political capital following the strategy that ultimately isn't designed for victory, and ultimately must change. And now is the time for leaders to speak out. The Iraq Study Group at least gives us a chance, a vehicle around which to come together as Republicans and Democrats, that the American people can support.   But having said that, count me as doubtful about many of its  suggestions.      I don't know whether the president can put forward now a policy that will ultimately lead us to victory. And if we're not there to win, then let's admit it and let's reposition in a way that's more intelligent in fighting the broader war on terror.    STEPHANOPOULOS:  You met with the president Wednesday.  What did  you hear?       BIDEN: I don't believe he has the capacity to change, because, in fairness to him, he had a fundamental view, George, and he concluded our meeting by saying, I believe in freedom and liberty, universal principles everyone agrees are the same principles. My comment was, Sistani's view of liberty is different than our view of liberty.   He has this wholesome but naive view that Western notions of liberty are easily transposed to that area of the world. As long as he thinks the Iraqis are about ready to jump up and embrace our notion of liberty, democracy might come into the present (inaudible). But Mr. President, democracy is more than an election. It involves fundamental compromise. And if you believe you are compromising your liberty if you conclude that you should move in one direction, then your notion of liberty is different than my notion of liberty.   I think the president, God love him, as my mother would say, thinks there's a Thomas Jefferson or a Madison behind every sand dune waiting to jump up, and there are none.    STEPHANOPOULOS: Senator Smith, when I was reading your speech on Friday morning, I thought immediately of your predecessors in Oregon. Wayne Morse, the only senator to vote against the Gulf of Tonkin resolution. Mark Hatfield, senator from Oregon, who was one of the leaders in stopping funding for the war in Vietnam. Were you conscious of their example?    SMITH:  I remember every day that I sit in the seat of Mark  Hatfield.  And there are a few more historic Oregonians.      I do believe Mark Hatfield, like the American people, are willing to sacrifice for America's defense, for our interests, our values and our friends.    SMITH: But I also believe Mark Hatfield and myself do not support policies, nor should the American people support policies, that lead us down a path to defeat. And I believe that that's what we've been pursuing. And I believe that must change.   And it's time for leaders to stand up. Anybody -- Joe, myself -- I was speaking in the speech as much about accountability as anything. We're going to be accountable to the American people. They own this government. The American people are not quitters, but they're not fools either. And they will not long follow a strategy that leads to defeat.    BIDEN: Look, George, as I said to the president when he asked me a while ago, if every jihadi, every terrorist in all of Iraq was eliminated, the Lord came down and sat in the middle of this table and said, They're all gone, we still have a major war in Iraq that has nothing to do with terror.    STEPHANOPOULOS:  Senator Biden, Senator Smith, thank you both very much.   