
            	BIDEN announces over $170,000 for scenic byway improvement
             December 10, 2007 
 Bradywine valley, Route 9 Corridor are beneficiaries of two grants   Washington, DC - Today U.S. Senator Joe Biden (D-DE) announced that two of Delaware's scenic byways will be receiving a boost from the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT). The grants, which total $174,600, are intended to ensure preservation, increase visual quality, and spur more volunteerism in and around both of the areas.  The Route 9 Corridor received $146,000 for its Corridor Management Plan (CMP), running 50 miles south from New Castle to Dover. It encompasses the entire byway, including the John Dickinson Plantation and the St. Jones National Estuarine Research Reserve. DOT also awarded a grant in the amount of $28,600 to improve and preserve the Brandywine Valley Scenic Byway, parallel to the Brandywine River in northern New Castle County.  These are both critical steps toward preserving and enhancing our state's unique natural beauty, Sen. Biden said. Perhaps most significantly, both of these projects are designed to increase community involvement in the improvement of these beautiful areas. The byways each possess historic and recreational value that deserves to be maintained for future generations.  We're extremely happy that these projects continue to receive such tremendous support, said Brad Killian, Executive Director of Delaware Greenways. These grants will go a long way towards ensuring both byways remain the scenic gems they are today, and they will help enhance the cultural, historic, and natural resources that make the byways special.  Both recipients are part of Delaware Department of Transportation's Scenic and Historic Byways Program, created in 2000. The Route 9 CMP is the third state byway to be designated in Delaware, and the first one to be designated for its natural intrinsic quality.  The Brandywine Valley Scenic Byway runs parallel to Routes 52 and 100 all the way north to the Pennsylvania border, including parts of Greenville, Centreville, Montchanin and the city of Wilmington. The project is aimed at improving tourism, increasing community involvement in the area, and raising funds for future work. 