
            	Senator Biden Announces the Class of 2009 Service Academy Nominations
             February 10, 2005 
 WILMINGTON, DE - U. S. Senator Joseph R. Biden, Jr. announced today his nominations to the U.S. Service Academies for the Class of 2009. After an intensive review process of qualified students, Senator Biden nominated three principal nominees - or top candidates - who will be offered academy appointments should they meet all medical, physical and academic requirements.   I am proud to nominate these gifted young men and women to the U.S. Service Academies, said Biden. The next few years will be challenging  academically, mentally and physically  but I am certain that they will rise to the challenge and come through this experience well-equipped to join the worlds finest military organization. Senator Bidens three principal nominees (listed in bold) and alternates are:   United States Naval Academy Principal Nominee:       Nicholas Rossi at Tower Hill, Christopher Bennett at Red Lion Christian Academy, Stephen Biederman at Wilmington Christian, Gardea Christian at St. Thomas More Academy, Stephen Giattino at The Charter School of Wilmington, Kennedy Keenan at Delmar High School, Alexander Mikstas at Charter School of Wilmington, Jordan Rollins at Seaford High School and Victoria Sederquest at Seaford High School.   United States Military Academy Principal Nominee:       Alexander Mikstas at Charter School of Wilmington, Stuart Barr at Milford High School, Christopher Bennett at Red Lion Christian Academy, Stephen Giattino at the Charter School of Wilmington, Jordan Rollins at Seaford High School, Nicholas Rossi at Tower Hill and Randall Wintermantel at A.I. DuPont High School.     United States Air Force Academy Principal Nominee:      Melissa Harry at St. Marks High School, Kennedy Keenan at Delmar High School, Victoria Sederquest at Seaford High School and Jeffrey Pecora at Caesar Rodney High School.   Senator Biden also nominated one student to the Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point, New York: Kennedy Keenan at Delmar High School.   Each year Senator Biden convenes an Academy Selection Board that interviews all service academy applicants and provides him with recommendations. The Board consists of representatives from New Castle, Kent and Sussex Counties.    