
            	Delaware Receives $211,000 For Monitoring Water Quality at the Beaches
             January 10, 2007 
 Washington D.C. -- Delaware's Congressional delegation -- Senators Joe Biden and Tom Carper and Congressman Mike Castle today announced $211,040 in federal funding for Delaware in fiscal year 2007 from the Environment Protection Agency for beach water-quality monitoring and public notification programs. The money will help to monitor water quality at the Delaware beaches and to identify ways to reduce pollution and ultimately, avoid beach closures.    According to the EPA, the grant amount is determined by the length of the beach season, miles of beaches and number of beachgoers. All 35 coastal and Great Lakes states and territories conduct monitoring programs using the EPA funding.    Delaware's coastal communities are not only a huge part of our state's economy, they add a great deal to our state's recreational, social and environmental identity as well, said Senator Biden. We must do whatever necessary to ensure our beaches are clean and the water quality is safe.    By taking steps to make sure our beaches remain clean and healthy, we are helping keep residents and visitors safe and our economy strong. I commend and share the EPA's commitment to this project and look forward to our shoreline maintaining its wonderful reputation, said Senator Carper.    Delaware's beaches are undoubtedly one of the state's greatest treasures, so I'm happy to help announce this funding that will help to keep the Delaware beach water quality at its best, while warning visitors if bacteria levels should become unhealthy. This funding is beneficial for the local economies as well as extremely important to the health of the residents, visitors and sea life at the beach, Congressman Castle said.    The EPA is also currently developing new technologies to analyze beaches for bacteria contamination. They are studying state-of-the-art detection methods, as well as population and illness surveys at beaches throughout the United States.  