
            	Securing Amtraks Future: Lessons from Madrid
             March 10, 2005 
  WASHINGTON, DC - One year ago, terrorists in Madrid, Spain detonated 10 bombs on four separate commuter trains, killing 191 people and wounding 1,700 others. In an effort to better protect American rail passengers and prevent future terrorist attacks from occurring on U.S. soil, Senators Joe Biden (D-DE), Tom Carper (D-DE) and Chuck Schumer (D-NY) today called on the Administration to commemorate the anniversary of the Madrid bombings by providing the funds necessary to ensure Americas railway security.   As we saw in Madrid last spring, rail systems are some of the most vulnerable and attractive terrorist targets throughout the world. There have been hundreds of attacks worldwide and we know for a fact that al Qaeda operatives have directly targeted U.S. rail systems with conventional and chemical attacks. Nonetheless, the Bush Administration has done next to nothing to protect passenger rails, and Republican Congressional leaders have held up critical rail security legislation for years, said Biden, the top Democrat on the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime. If we dont learn the lessons from Madrid, we will surely suffer the consequences.   The tragic events in Madrid a year ago prove that rail systems are especially vulnerable to terrorist attacks. Amtrak and our commuter railroads are doing all they can to keep riders safer, but the federal government needs to do its job as well, said Senator Carper. Today, more people use Amtrak's Pennsylvania Station in New York City in a single day than use all of New York's airports combined. It is imperative that the Homeland Security Department and Congress take specific steps to ensure that rail passengers are as safe as they can be from terrorist threats.   The terrorist attacks on Madrid's commuter railroad should have been a wake up call for the Bush Administration. It should have shown how devastating an attack on mass transit can be to a community, a city and the entire country, said Senator Schumer. Millions of Americans ride the rails, including thousands on Amtrak alone every day. As the Administration takes a meat axe to the funding of Amtrak, it is impossible to invest in the solvency, security and safety of America's passenger rail system.   During a press conference on Capitol Hill, the senators noted that Americas law enforcement agencies have repeatedly stated that passenger rail is a potential target for terrorists. Law enforcement reports show that al Qaeda operatives have directly targeted our U.S. rail systems with conventional and chemical attacks. Materials recovered by the FBI and CIA have included photographs of various rail infrastructure targets such as tunnels and bridges. But despite those clear warnings, the Bush Administration has not responded with any concrete steps to improve the safety of millions of people who ride trains.   The Madrid attacks, which took place on March 11, 2004, showed the world how devastating an attack on rail can be. In fact, rail systems are the most popular terrorist target worldwide -- there have been hundreds of attacks on rail worldwide in recent years.   Outlining efforts that need to be undertaken immediately to prevent an attack from happening in America, the senators noted that there are many simple, effective steps that can be taken to enhance security. For instance, adding more police officers, more dogs to sniff for bombs, additional security cameras, fencing for the yards, and tighter security for the major tunnels along the heavily trafficked Northeast Corridor.   The senators argued that since 9/11, the President has spent $24 billion on the airlines and enhancing aviation security but has invested less than $450 million on passenger rail security.   Experts agree that a conservative railway protection program would cost about $1.1 billion. This money wouldn't solve all of Amtrak's security woes, but it would be a good first step toward closing the security gaps in our nation's rail systems. Last year the Senate passed a bipartisan bill to do just that. But with no push from the administration and no action by the House, that legislation was stopped dead in its tracks.   