
Biden Leads Effort to Press Arab League to Help Stop Violence in Darfur
 October 10, 2006 
 Washington, DC  In a letter to Amr Moussa, Secretary General of the League of Arab States, Senator Joseph Biden (D-DE) led all 100 Senators in calling on the League to use the full weight of its influence to end the ethnic cleansing taking place in Darfur. Specifically, the letter calls on the Arab League to press President Omar Hassan El-Bashir to halt Sudans military offensive in Darfur, withdraw Sudanese troops from the area, and facilitate the deployment of UN peacekeepers to the region.    As the crisis in Darfur has escalated dramatically in recent months, the need for action has never been greater, said Biden. It is my hope that with the help of the League of Arab States and UN Peacekeepers we can begin to stem the tide of violence that has engulfed the region for far too long.    Over the course of the conflict, Janjaweed, Sudanese government forces and rebel militias have driven more than 200,000 refugees into Chad. Two million people have been displaced 50,000 of them in the last four months alone. More than 200,000 people have lost their lives, and thousands of women have been raped and assaulted as part of a campaign of ethnic cleansing.    The text of the letter is below:      October 10, 2006    His Excellency Amr Moussa    Secretary General     The League of Arab States    28 Adly 7th Floor    Cairo, Egypt    Dear Secretary General Moussa:    We write to request that you employ all diplomatic means available to urge President Omar Hassan El-Bashir to halt Sudans military offensive in Darfur, withdraw Sudanese troops from the area, and facilitate the deployment of UN peacekeepers to the region.    As you are aware, the conflict in Darfur has intensified over the past four months despite numerous agreements and United Nations resolutions, including Security Council Resolution 1706 authorizing the transition of the African Union Mission in Sudan (AMIS) into a United Nations mission. Over the course of the conflict, Janjaweed, Sudanese government forces and rebel militias have driven more than 200,000 refugees into Chad. Two million people have been displaced 50,000 of them in the last four months alone. More than 200,000 people have lost their lives, and thousands of women have been raped and assaulted as part of a campaign of ethnic cleansing. Humanitarian operations have also been attacked and disrupted, leaving millions of peoplethe majority of them women and children without access to food, water and health care.    The Arab Leagues offer to dispatch a contingent of Muslim and Arab troops to Darfur as peacekeepers over the weekend has been rejected by Khartoum, and the government of Sudan has offered no alternative solutions. The situation on the ground remains dire. We ask you to urge Arab League members particularly Qatar, which abstained from the last UNSC vote to strongly encourage Khartoum to comply with resolution 1706. We commend the Arab Leagues pledge last March of $150 million for the AMIS mission, beginning on October 1, 2006. Though AMISs mandate was to have expired on September 30, 2006, its extension until January 2007 provides a golden opportunity to fulfill its pledge and play a productive role in resolving the crisis in Darfur. Arab League voices on this matter can save thousands of lives by helping to bring peace and security to Sudan, Chad and other countries in the region.    We are committed to doing what we can to protect civilians in Sudan and Chad from further violence and bloodshed, to find a just resolution to the political conflict, and to help Darfur on its long path to reconstruction. Since the conclusion of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement, we have begun to see peace and development returning to southern Sudan with the assistance of UN Mission in Sudan. It is now time for us to work together as an international community to make the same progress in Darfur.    Deployment of a UN mission is the best option to enforce the ceasefire, protect civilians, ensure access to humanitarian assistance, and begin to rebuild Darfur.    Sincerely,     U.S. Senator Joseph R. Biden, Jr (D-DE)    U.S. Senator Bill Frist (R-TN)   