
            	Senate Foreign Relations Committee Holds Hearing on the Situation in Darfur
             April 11, 2007 
 BIDEN:     Thank you for being here, Mr. Ambassador. Welcome.     And welcome to our outside witnesses as well: Susan Rice, a former assistant secretary of state for Africa now at Brookings; Stephen Morrison, one of the leading think-tank experts on Africa from CSIS; and Larry Rossin, the leader of the Darfur -- Save Darfur movement.     Folks, it's been four years now since the crisis in Darfur erupted, four years since the genocide began. And it's been two years and nine months since Congress formally recognized this as genocide. The resolution in both the House and Senate passed three years and nine months ago and it passed unanimously. Not a single member denied the horror that was under way.     It's been three years and seven months since the administration added its own recognition. On September 9, 2004, in testimony before the committee, then-Secretary of State Colin Powell said clearly that the killings in Darfur was genocide. Shortly thereafter, so did President Bush.    So now, all these years later, the question still remains: What are we going to do about it? What are we going to do to stop the slaughter, to return the survivors to their homes, to bring those responsible for the murder, rape and terror to justice and to build a lasting peace? What are we going to do about Darfur?     That's the question I've asked the ambassador. He's the administration's point person for Darfur. And like his predecessor, Deputy Secretary Zoellick, I have no doubt about his dedication and determination to do the right thing.     In December, the ambassador told a group of senators that Khartoum had until the end of the month to agree to the deployment of U.N. peacekeepers. That deadline has long since passed with no agreement by Khartoum to accept the peacekeepers and no reaction from the United States or the international community to its refusal.     Today this committee expects to hear from the ambassador a concrete plan of action. I hope you'll flesh out the administration's plan B, as was referred to earlier, and tell us how and when the administration will act on that plan.  BIDEN:     What should we do about Darfur? Well, that's the question I've asked our outside witnesses because there are almost certainly steps the administration is not planning to take that this committee should consider from these outside witnesses.     I have my own strongly held view on what we should do.     Most importantly, we need a comprehensive approach to what is a complex problem. We have to work all six sides of what John Prendergast, one of the leading experts on Darfur, rightly calls the policy Rubik's cube.     That would require the kind of resources, coordination and sustained engagement at the highest levels that, in my view, we have not yet seen or we have not only from this administration but also we have not seen from our partners around the world.     Let me quickly suggest some of the pieces of the complex approach that needs to be taken.     First, pursuing Khartoum is necessary, but not sufficient. We need to work on the major rebel groups as well.     Three years ago after visiting a refugee camp on the Chad-Darfur border, I met with the leaders of two of the major rebel groups. I urged them to come up with a common program. I offered to host them in Congress if they did. I warned them that if they did not, Khartoum would use their division as an excuse to do nothing.     We need a major, sustained diplomatic initiative to bring these rebels together.     Second, peacekeepers are essential, but they're not enough. We need a peace process.     If we end the violence but fail to achieve a sustained political settlement in Darfur, the violence will return. That puts a premium on a single peace process, supported by the international community, including the African Union and the United Nations, and managed by an oversight group of concerned countries.     Third, unilateral sanctions may be necessary, but will not suffice. We need a coordinated action from many other countries.     The United States has had significant sanctions on Khartoum since 1990. We're almost sanctioned out, to use a phrase the president used in another context.     For pressure to be meaningful, it must be multilateral. The Chinese, the Arab world, the Europeans, the African Union, everyone should be joining together in this campaign. But without American leadership, I see absolutely no prospect of that happening.  BIDEN:     Fourth, limiting our focus to Darfur is too narrow. We have to include the neighbors, especially Chad and the Central African Republic.     I saw firsthand the spillover effects of Darfur -- of the Darfur crisis on Chad. And it has gotten much worse over the past three years. The crisis is putting an incredible strain on the neighbors. And, at the same time, they have tremendous influence with some of the key players. On Darfur diplomacy and initiatives, they -- excuse me, our Darfur diplomacy and initiatives must include the neighbors.     Finally, and most urgently, convincing Khartoum to accept a meaningful peacekeeping force should be our goal. But if it refuses, imposing such a force -- imposing such a force must be our mission.     I wish that the African Union had the mandate, the manpower and the material to do the job, but it does not.     We must set a hard deadline now on Khartoum to accept a hybrid A.U.-U.N. force. And we must start planning to impose that force if Khartoum refuses, and to take other concrete steps that can start saving lives now.     I've long advocated a NATO-led no-fly zone to stop the air support Khartoum provides to the Janjaweed. Recently, Khartoum has stepped up its slaughter from the skies. It is within our power to clip their wings.     Yes, a no-fly zone could make it more difficult for humanitarian groups to operate. So we should do everything possible to design it with their concerns in mind. And I expect to ask the witnesses about that.     I hope that we come out of this this morning with a clear plan for action. For too long, all of us have expressed our outrage at the destruction of Darfur without doing anything meaningful to stop it. I think it's long past time we must act, even if that action is in the face of the refusal of Khartoum to accommodate anything.     I realize that sounds reminiscent of what I said 12 years ago about Bosnia, but I think it is -- this is incredible.  BIDEN:     Our grandkids are going to be seeing their own version of Hotel Rwanda. It's going to make it look like it was not nearly as bad as what they're going to be seeing.     So I thank you very much.     I also want to point out that the senator -- Senator Lugar will be here, but he is testifying before the Armed Services Committee on Nunn-Lugar, and he's introducing a judge before the Judiciary Committee from Indiana. But he will be here.     I thank you again, Mr. Ambassador.     And I indicated to the senator from New Hampshire if he had an opening comment on the Republican side, he's welcome to it, but suggested...  SUNUNU:     If I might just offer a couple of brief comments?  BIDEN:     Please.  SUNUNU:     First, I want to mention that Senator Feingold isn't here, but he chairs the Africa Subcommittee -- I'm the ranking member. And I know he has a great interest in both the testimony from Mr. Natsios and in the situation.     There's no greater manmade humanitarian crisis that I can think of in the world today. And, Mr. Chairman, I think you've outlined very effectively the moral obligation that we have to pursue, really, a just outcome here.     The slow pace that we've seen is absolutely unacceptable. And we need not just a proper response and an effective plan, but we need to understand what the reasons are for such a slow pace.     I was in the room with you when Secretary Powell testified before our committee and talked about the genocide that was occurring. That was two and a half years ago and, to be sure, at that time, the expectations were much, much higher.     So we need to understand exactly what the reasons are for the slow pace of progress. And I think we need to be very frank: If there are disagreements within the State Department or within the administration about the path we should be pursuing, we need to know about that; we need to understand that, so that we can best decide as legislators what might be done to either help build consensus or pursue a particular path that might reinforce the goals and objectives of Mr. Natsios and those that have spent the most time in the region.  SUNUNU:     So I hope this hearing might put out some of those sort of frank assessments of what can be done better, what can be done differently and where there might be alternatives and options in order to deal with this incredible humanitarian crisis.     Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  BIDEN:     Thank you very much.     Mr. Ambassador, again, welcome. Thank you. You've got a difficult job. We're anxious to hear what you have to say.  NATSIOS:     Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for inviting me before the committee.     President Bush appointed me to this position in September of last year, about seven months ago. I -- actually, my first trip to Darfur was in 1990, 17 years ago, during the first Darfur war. This is the third war in 20 years and by far the most destructive.     I do have written testimony. I'm not going to read that. It's very long. But for the record I'd like to submit that, Mr. Chairman.  BIDEN:     Your remarks will be entered into the record.  NATSIOS:     Thank you.     I went then as a USAID official. My job then was to make sure people didn't die in what was a drought and a war at the same time. And I wasn't focused on the politics of it. It was a tribal war between the Fur people, an African tribe, and the Arabs.     And so -- and then there's another war in the 1990s between the Masalit tribe, which are Africans, and the Arabs.     And now this is the third war between the Masalit, the Fur and the Zaghawas and the Arabs.     And it's mostly the northern Arabs, not the southern Arabs. The southern Arabs, the southern Rizigot (ph), actually have been neutral in the war. And the Nasir (ph) of the southern Rizigot (ph) have actually helped protect some of the African tribes from attacks from the Janjaweed.     So I think it's a very bad idea to assume this is all Africans versus all Arabs. That is simply not true. And it may make peace harder if people think the bad guys are all the Arabs and the good guys are all of the African tribes. That's simply not the case.     The war has been dangerously regionalized at this point. It's destabilized Chad. It's poured now into the Central African Republic. And we are very worried about the regional consequences of this, not just from a political stand, but from a humanitarian standpoint.  NATSIOS:     There were 400 people killed or who died from exposure in attacks in Chad in the last week -- which is very disturbing -- according to reports coming in from the field.     We believe the only way to deal with this is ultimately a negotiated settlement, because over the long term we have to have some kind of an agreement between the people who live there, who've been at war with each other -- with one side with support of the government of Sudan -- for the economy and the social structure and the social fabric of the province to be put back together again.     We think coercive measures will be necessary, in fact. In fact, are necessary.     When you said, Senator, I gave them a deadline of the end of December, actually they met the deadline for that phase.     In December, I met with President Bashir, and I told him that he had said under no circumstances would there ever be a blue helmet, ever, in Darfur, under phase one, phase two or phase three of the Kofi Annan plan which we negotiated on November 16th with 30 countries and three international organizations at the meeting.     And he said, That's still my position.     I said, That's completely untenable. And I said, We're going to have to impose these new coercive measures if you refuse to do that.     He agreed, at that point, to allow blue helmets. And blue helmets are in Darfur now. Not a large number of them, but he has agreed to all of the provisions of the first phase, which is about 190 people.     And so, there was, in fact, some action. But it's very slow.     And there's a reason it's slow. The Sudanese government sees the peacekeeping force as regime threatening. And the reason they see that is they believe that if a U.N. force enters Darfur they will begin to arrest people for war crimes trials in Europe under the ICC. And there is a fear -- I've told them, That is not in the resolution; that's not what they are there for.     They've said, Well, it may not be now, but once the troops arrive, you can change the resolution later on.    In any case, that's the fear. And it's a real fear because, of course, they've committed crimes and they're going to be held accountable. And we know that the ICC has already announced they're investigating people and will be shortly making some indictments of some major figures in the regime.     We believe, finally, that a negotiated settlement is the only way, but we must deal with the property, livelihoods and security issues for the people in the province in a peace agreement that has to be implemented.  NATSIOS:     There's a lot of broken agreements that have been signed over the years. I've watched them for 17 years between the north and the south. They sign agreements, they sign agreements and then they don't implement any of them.     So it's not a function of simply signing things. It's a function of doing them.     Once the blue helmets arrived in Darfur under phase one, I complimented the public for agreeing to what they did agree to. But before that I didn't talk about it because I wasn't sure they were going to actually physically let them in.     Where are our diplomatic efforts and our policy?     Our focus is on human rights and on humanitarian issues. We have no military or economic interests in Darfur. I repeat that because this is a refrain that is being used to sort of exaggerate among the Arab tribes what the purpose of the United States and other countries' interest in Darfur are. They're for oil. They're for building a military base. Other ridiculous arguments are being made to fuel tensions -- ethnic tensions within the country in a very helpful way.     We believe that we need to energize, although this is not the purpose of this hearing, the implementation of the comprehensive peace agreement between the north and south. We think there's a direct relationship between peace in the south and peace in Darfur.     We have asked the southerners, who are actually the most influential with the rebel groups, to get involved in this. I asked them last December. I asked them again in March. And they have done that. Salva Kiir is getting involved, who's the president of the south, and the first vice president of the northern government.     At first the northern government said, Absolutely not. You will not do this. Over time, we've I think convinced the Sudanese government that it was in their interest to have them involved. And they are involved now.     The rebels I met with in January in Chad told me the most influential group for them were the southerners. Because together the south and Darfur make up half the country.     And the model for the DPA -- the Darfur peace agreement that was signed last May -- is the comprehensive peace agreement between the north and the south. They see their brothers in the south as a model for what they want to do in Darfur.  NATSIOS:     We have encouraged -- I have personally encouraged. I spent a week in Chad in January working with the rebels and working with Jan Eliasson and Salim Salim to unify the rebels. They're broken down now into 14 or 15 different groups, depending on the week.     It is a very chaotic situation. One of the problems with the security situation at this point, it is not two sides fighting against each other. It's anarchy. The government has lost control of large parts of the province now. And some of the rapes, by the way, that are going on, are by rebels, raping women in their own tribes.     We know in one of the refugee camps that's now controlled by the rebels formally there have been terrible atrocities committed by the rebels against the people in the camps.     We also believe that there needs to be one negotiating process. When I started last year, there were six different tracks for negotiations between the rebels and the government, and with the Sudanese government. And we said, That's just not going to work. There has to be one route.     And we've actually moved toward that. And that is what part of the Addis agreement was, to have just the U.N. and the A.U. track. Our job was to support them, not to set up separate, independent negotiations which will be used as a mechanism for forum shopping by the rebels or even the government. We don't want that to happen.     The only way this is going to be solved is a comprehensive settlement that is between two sides, with one negotiating position on each side, which we're encouraging the rebels to have.     I might add the southern agreement would never have taken place if there were 12 John Garangs. There was one John Garang leading the southern negotiations and one northern government official, the vice president, Ali Osman Taha, who negotiated the agreement.     It would never have happened if there were multiple parties on each side with different agendas and different positions. NATSIOS:     The current situation is very troubling to us because of the government's loss of control, because of rebel attacks on aid agencies which are now increasing.     Of the 120 vehicles that were stolen from aid agencies -- and by the way, the United States government has spent $2.4 billion keeping people alive over just the last two years.     We are, by far, the largest international donor. I think 65 percent of all the food comes from the United States to feed people; 2.5 billion people are in over 200 displaced camps all over Darfur.     And there are hundreds of NGOs and U.N. agencies that are at work. And they all have heavy funding from the United States.     But 128 trucks were looted last year. The great bulk of those, actually, were from the rebels, and a few from the Janjaweed militias.     We now have Arab-on-Arab violence. The principal people getting killed right now are one Arab tribe fighting with other Arab tribes.     Since February 11th, there has actually been no aerial bombardments, according to very credible sources on the ground. So there's been two months of no aerial bombardments.     Secondly, the principal deaths since the beginning of the year actually have been Arabs being killed by this Arab-on-Arab violence.     There have been about 80,000 new IDPs in January and February. That slowed down in February and March.     And right now, we're seeing a relative lull in the fighting in Darfur. The fighting, however, has intensified to a dangerous degree in Chad. And that's where the bulk of the people getting killed are at this point.     I'd just like to make a quick point on the CPA, the comprehensive peace agreement.     It is not the case that the CPA is not being implemented. It is being implemented, parts of it.     A billion dollars in oil revenues have been transferred from the north to the south. That's a significant change.     There is no war in the south. There is no famine in the south. The economy's picking up. Roads are being built -- a lot with U.S. government support, I might add -- and health clinics built and schools being built. teachers being trained. The economy is moving.     However, the transformational provisions of the CPA, which John Garang insisted on being in there -- elections, the sharing of revenue, not just with the south but all of the provinces in the north. Because many of the rural provinces are getting no money from the oil revenues, at all. That is in the CPA. It's not just a transformation of the south.     Those difficult provisions of transformation are not being implemented. They're the most dangerous in terms of the stability of the central government and its own interests. And it sees those interests under attack right now because of the instability in Darfur. And so they have been unwilling to implement those provisions.     It is critically important that the CPA be implemented, if we're going to have a model for a successful implementation of a peace agreement in Darfur.     There is little progress in border demarcation. There's an impasse in Abyei.     I've raised all these issues repeatedly with President Bashir and told him, if he wants to stabilize Darfur, he needs to implement the CPA with the south.  NATSIOS:     Because if the rebels see that the CPA is being implemented, I believe there's a greater likelihood they will return to the negotiating table.     Our policy is in three areas.     That is, to stabilize the humanitarian situation, particularly -- while the death rates in the camps are well below emergency levels, we are nervous because access by the NGOs has deteriorated because of the anarchy in the province now and the attacks on aid agencies, which has led to a couple of them leaving, a very dangerous situation.     Two, we are very nervous about the rainy season that's coming up. We have a lot of food -- more than enough food in the capital cities. But the problem is getting it without attacks on the convoys into the camps before the rainy season starts in nine weeks.     Secondly, our political solution is simply to get the rebels back to the negotiating table with the government. The government has not put precondition other than one: They want to use the DPA as a base for further negotiations with additional amendments, and they have told me they will be flexible on that.     I talk to Jan Eliasson quite often. He's an old friend of mine. He's leading the negotiating teams. And he has a plan in place for how we can proceed in the next month to move toward that.     And finally, we want the full three phases of the Bashir -- I'm sorry, the Kofi Annan-Ban Ki-moon plan that was agreed to do in Addis implemented.     As of today, the U.N. has announced, with the A.U., that the Sudanese government has agreed, it appears, to what was called the heavy support package, phase two, which they trashed in a letter to Ban Ki-moon a month ago when I was -- they signed it when I was there -- literally when I was in the city. They signed it and sent it but not give us a copy.     They appear to have reversed themselves on that. Now, I have to say appeared because there's a long history of them signing things, announcing these things and communiques and then not doing them.     So what will be the proof of this is whether or not we're allowed to go ahead with the work we're going to do in building more camps to house more soldiers.  NATSIOS:     The big impediment to phase one has been the absence of barracks, which we are now constructing for the 190 troops who will be arriving. And then there will be assistance that will be given by the international community for the construction for the additional 3,000 people under phase two.     They have not agreed to phase three, and there are two remaining issues on phase three, called the hybrid force.     One is U.N. command and control. I put U.N. command and control in the text of the Addis agreement. I insisted on it. I said, That is a bottom line for the United States. If there is no U.N. command and control, we do not support the agreement.     Two -- and the Sudanese government is resisting that. They don't want orders coming to these troops from New York directly.     Two, they do not want any troops from outside Africa. We believe -- and I believe there's people in the United Nations who can confirm this -- that there are not sufficiently trained peacekeeping troops in Africa to handle this; that we need troops from other peacekeeping countries, outside Africa, which the Sudanese have been very resistant on.     And there are a number of other, smaller issues, but those are the two central issues at this point.     Let me just conclude by saying we were about to impose plan B, at least this phase of it. And we did not want to announce them, frankly, when a congressional delegation was in Khartoum; we didn't think that was particularly good timing.     And then there's been a request made by Ban Ki-moon, the secretary general, of our secretary of state and of me -- I met with him last Monday, and he repeated, I need two weeks to four weeks to try to see if the current round of negotiations is going to work to get the paralysis that we're facing moving.     As a courtesy to the secretary general, we've agreed to that delay. But there is a finite limit to it. And if we continue to see stonewalling, then those measures are going to be implemented.  NATSIOS:     It's up to the president. It's his decision to make. But I know where he is on this: He's as angry as all of us are on this and wants action.     But the secretary general requested it. He did it publicly; it's not a secret. And we've agreed to wait a short time while we let the negotiations that he's undertaking now take their course.     I'd be glad to answer questions, Mr. Chairman.  BIDEN:     Thank you, Mr. Secretary -- Mr. Ambassador.     I now understand why you have not begun to implement plan B, but what are some of the specific coercive steps in plan B?  NATSIOS:     There are three.     And I might add, plan B is a series of things that will be phased over time, depending on how things go. If we see a deterioration of the Sudanese government's attitude and cooperation on phase one and phase two, which they've clearly agreed to, then there are going to be other measures.     But the measures now that are before the president are, number one, personal sanctions against one rebel leader who's an obstructionist.     I mean, the perception is all the rebel leaders are John Adams and Abraham Lincoln and George Washington. They are not.     Some of them are very able people. I've known them for many years. But some of them are dangerous extremists. And one of them has been obstructing any peace deal, and he is on the list. Two war criminals, people who think have committed terrible atrocities, are on that list. And there will be travel bans, there will be bans on -- confiscation of bank accounts and other measures against individuals.     Is it going to have a big effect? Are they traveling widely in the United States? No, they're not.     But they do not like being on this list, I have to tell you. People are very worried in Khartoum as to who the other two people are in the Sudanese government. Everybody keeps asking us, which of course we're not telling anyone. That's the president's decision, the announcement.    The second provision of this round of sanctions, if the president decides to go ahead with this, are 29 companies that are, in fact, owned by the Sudanese government that are very large companies, very powerful companies, through which a lot of money moves, particularly oil revenues.  NATSIOS:     And many of them do their transactions in dollars. And we believe that under the new enforcement mechanisms, which is part three of this, these sanctioned companies in fact will have some of their operations paralyzed.     Under the third part of this is new enforcement mechanisms to implement the sanctions that the president put in place two years ago and the new sanctions he put in place under the Darfur Peace and Accountability Act that the Congress passed, that were put in place -- I remember distinctly the date because it was in October, because the executive order was signed the day I arrived in Khartoum, which is one reason the Sudanese -- because they were so furious, they wouldn't let me see President Bashir.     And so we have new mechanisms that we've developed since 9/11 that were not available in the 1990s, or even in the earlier period. This is just in the last two years these new mechanisms have been put in place.     They are the mechanisms, Senator, that are being used in Iran and North Korea. And we're going to employ those mechanisms to do a much more aggressive enforcement mechanism for existing sanctions plus the 29 new companies that we would add should the president decide to go ahead with this.  BIDEN:     What impact on their -- 29 -- give us some sense of what these 29 companies, the impact of sanctioning them would have on the overall economy.  NATSIOS:     Well, it is the 29 plus the existing 130 that are already on the list. We're just adding -- we're going to keep adding more and more companies, is what we're going to do.     And this phase, we have 29 -- you have to go through a long, apparently, legal process. It's the Treasury Department that does this. The head of OFAC I meet with constantly. We're -- we've spent a huge amount of time on this to make sure that all of the legal hurdles required under federal statute are followed so we don't have lawsuits on our hands and that we effectively can enforce these.     We believe it will have an effect on the economy -- a substantial effect. And the reason we know is because it's having an effect on the Iranian and North Korean economy. I would not be as enthusiastic about these measures, having had experience with sanctions before, except for the fact that we know what it's doing in these two other countries. It's having a real impact.    And finally I would add that all oil transactions -- and there are a number of oil companies that are state-owned by the Sudanese government and state-run.  NATSIOS:     All those transactions are in dollars, even though we don't buy the oil and the oil has nothing to do with American companies.     The current practice is, all international oil transactions, regardless of which country or which company, are in dollars. And so they have to go through American banks in order to take place.     And so that's one of the mechanisms that will be put in place that does not exist at this point.  BIDEN:     What impact would that have on the oil trade that the Sudanese engage in, for example, with the Chinese?  NATSIOS:     I don't want to go in, in a public session, to the details of which companies are on that list or which not. One is the president's -- I don't want to get into White House prerogatives on announcing which companies are on the list and which companies are not.     I think, Senator, the largest and most powerful effect here is not on individual companies. It's on the enforcement mechanisms which are new. Because we didn't have these enforcement mechanisms in place.     In fact, we're the only country in the world that has such a powerful enforcement mechanism, through the Federal Reserve Bank, to actually enforce these sanctions. And that is something that's, as I said before, relatively new.  BIDEN:     The secretary general has asked you to hold off, but do you support a new Darfur Security Council resolution?  NATSIOS:     He asked the British, who were the primary sponsors of that resolution, to hold off, as well, for two to four weeks, for the same reason. BIDEN:     But my question...  NATSIOS:     And we have been working with them on it, yes. We support a resolution.     I don't know the current state. I'd have to ask Kristen Silverberg about the drafting of the resolution.     But they asked, also, for that. That's been public comment by Ban Ki-moon, to ask the British to hold off on that, temporarily.  BIDEN:     What is the administration's assessment of the utility, the efficacy of imposing a no-fly zone?  NATSIOS:     Senator, I recognize there's been a lot of discussion about this. I have made an offer to the committee to come brief you in a classified session.     All military options are on the table for discussion within the executive branch.  NATSIOS:     And I'm happy to tell you the state of that in the classified session, and let me tell you why.     There are 2.5 million people in those camps, in the displaced camps in Darfur, and there are 13,000 relief workers, working for U.N. agencies and NGOs. They are extremely vulnerable.     Every comment I make -- literally every comment -- is in the Darfur newspapers; not just the Khartoum newspapers, in Darfur. They have TV stations. They broadcast everything we say.     It's one thing for someone from the legislative branch to make comments. When I make comments specifically about any kind of military activity, it has a profound effect. And I have to be very careful that it does not cause a reaction that could put people's lives in dangers on the ground.     When other people make the comments, that's a different matter. But when someone from the executive branch does it, it causes very severe reactions in the field.     So I have been asked repeatedly in the field by my friends in the international community to be very careful what I say.     I'm happy to brief you and your committee privately on this.  BIDEN:     We'll set a time up for that.     My time is up.     Is the senator coming back?     Governor, you're up.  VOINOVICH:     About a month ago, I had an opportunity to meet with Secretary General Ban and talked to him at length about Darfur. He claims that it's on his mind early in the morning and late at night.     And I'd like your assessment in terms of his commitment to seeing this through and seeing the resolution is implemented.     You mentioned that he has discouraged going forward with another resolution. And I'd just like your honest appraisal of his commitment to this and how much support he may or may not be getting from other members of the United Nations.  NATSIOS:     Let me first say that I spent an hour with him last Monday, and I was very impressed by his commitment. And the evidence is, from just people I know in the U.N. system, he is seized with this issue, and he told me this is his number one priority.     He has spent a lot of time on it. His staff is spending a lot of time on it. I met all of the undersecretary generals who are dealing with this at length last Monday, separately, and it was clear that he had given them very, very aggressive instructions as to what was to happen.     I think we need to give him a chance.     I should tell you...  VOINOVICH:     May I ask you, what does that mean, a chance?  NATSIOS:     That means that if he asks for a two- to four-week delay, that we need to respect that. That's what he asked for, specifically, publicly.     Secondly, let me just say that there has been a lot of speculation of the role of other countries in the negotiations on Darfur. I believe that the Chinese have already played -- I know the Chinese have already played a constructive role.     Ambassador Wang, who's become a friend, who is the perm rep for the Chinese government in New York, in fact, came, at Kofi Annan's request, to the Addis conference in November -- November 16th. And we worked together on the language. And the Chinese are committed to what we agreed to November 16th.     And they now are saying something they seldom do. The Chinese do not conduct diplomacy the way we do. They do it very quietly. But they're now making public statements telling the Sudanese they must be, number one, flexible; and, number two, they must accept and implement the agreement that was reached as it was reached November 16th. In fact, their special envoy for Darfur just returned to Beijing and he repeated this.     We have indications at this point that the Chinese are now taking even a more aggressive role than they have in the past.     So I actually think we need to encourage Chinese involvement in this.  NATSIOS:     I think they may be the crucial actors.     I think there's been a lot of China-bashing in the West. And I'm not sure, to be very frank with you, right now it's very helpful.     I think the Chinese actually may be the critical factor that led to the Sudanese reversing their position in Addis two days ago on the second phase of the heavy support package of the Kofi Annan plan. We have evidence that they put very heavy pressure on them.     So I don't want to violate confidences, Senator, publicly. But I believe actually other members of the Security Council are working on this.     We talk constantly, every week, with the Chinese at the presidential level, at the -- Deputy Secretary Negroponte just spoke to the deputy secretary of the Chinese Foreign Ministry, I think, yesterday or day before yesterday. I met with Ambassador Wang last week in New York. I've met with the Chinese ambassador to the United States, and I think we've had very good conversations over that.     So I think Ban Ki-moon has the support of member states. I even think now many of the Arab states are fed up with the way in which the Sudanese government is conducting itself. And they are beginning to put pressure on in their own way, quietly, on the Sudanese government to resolve this.  VOINOVICH:     Well, that's comforting because there are so many of us that have wondered just how conscientious United Nations really was about this issue. And it's comforting to know that the Chinese that have always been held out as the obstructionists have now -- seem to be come on board and use their influence to be successful there.     When you met with the secretary general, did he raise the issue about the peacekeeping funds in the budget?     You know, we're asking the United Nations to do all kinds of things in the area of peacekeeping. But the fact of the matter is that the budget that we have provided, Mr. Chairman, is inadequate. We are not providing the money that we need for peacekeeping. Our dues are in arrears. And this organization, which is really carrying a lot of water for the United States in so many areas, needs the support of this administration and of Congress.     And I wonder if he raised that issue with you.  NATSIOS:     He did not raise it with me, Senator.     But let me just mention, in the supplemental budget that is before you -- I know other issues are, sort of, clouding this or pushing this aside -- but in that budget that you have before there's quite a lot of money for Sudan.     And there's $150 million in that budget request, the supplemental for the AMIS -- supporting the AMIS force in Darfur. And there's $99.8 million for the international peacekeeping activities for the United Nations under that. So there's about $250 million -- I'm sorry, the $100 million, the $99 million is in the '08 request.     We have a lot more money in the account for peacekeeping operations. But we have to get agreement first to transfer the cost of this operation in Darfur, which is one of the critical issues.  NATSIOS:     We do not want keep coming back to Congress for special appropriations. It doesn't work. And it's not working for the European Union, either.     We want the U.N. to fund this under the regular appropriations so we can go through a normalized process to do this.     In order to do that, we have to have U.N. command and control. So U.N. command and control is not just a matter of military operations. It's a matter of the member states are not going to agree to have the U.N. fund this unless they have control over the operation. I've told that repeatedly to President Bashir and to his ministers.     It's not just a function of the United States wanting the U.N. to be in control. It's a function of member states not willing to vote for a resolution that would allow this to be funded by the U.N.     Right now, phase one and phase two of the light support package and the heavy support package under the Addis agreement of November 16th can be funded out of existing funds and the funds we have in the supplemental appropriations. So we're taken care of in terms of that.     We will have discussions with the Congress later on, should there be a transfer of this funding from the episodic funding to regular U.N. appropriations.     Right now, we've put in the current state of affairs. What's in the budget will support the current state of affairs and what we believe is start-up money needed to fund the U.N. operation.  BIDEN:     Senator Casey?  CASEY:     Thank you, Mr. Chairman.     Sir, I want to thank you for your testimony and, obviously, for your service.     I wanted to speak -- or, I should say, ask you, in particular about legislation which you may have already spoken to this morning, and I apologize for coming in when I did.     But we have -- among many things that are being proposed here on Capitol Hill and in the Senate, there's legislation introduced by Senator Durbin, Senate bill S. 831, the Sudan Disinvestment Authorization Act of this year, of 2007.     I wanted to get your perspective on that and also to ask you, in particular, about the administration, whether or not the administration has taken any formal position on that legislation.  NATSIOS:     Senator, I'm aware of many different pieces of legislation on this issue. And I, prior to my taking this job, when I was a professor -- I'm still a professor at Georgetown, I have another job, I have my students -- I stated my position on this issue. But I am a member of the administration. I support the administration's position.  NATSIOS:     I don't know if it's been made public, but there is a great deal of concern about this legislation in the administration. I do not think the administration supports the notion of divestiture, and there are several reasons for it.     My concern about it personally is from our past experience with divestiture legislation. It would take a couple of years before it had an effect, and we don't have a couple of years.     Divestiture legislation is not going to have an effect on the Sudanese economy in the next year, even if it passed immediately, was immediately enforced. It will take a while. We don't have a while.     Number two, I remember when I was a state legislator in Massachusetts 22 years ago, I voted for sanctions on South Africa to purge the state pension fund of any investments of companies in South Africa, and I remember that.     What people don't realize is many states still have statutes on the books from 20 years ago. They never rescinded them.     So there is a reluctance in the administration to support legislation that would have the states -- and there's been, by the way, a Supreme Court ruling -- it actually had my name on it at one point because I was the chief operating officer for state government. I was being sued by the board of trade when I was the secretary of administration in Boston -- staff in Boston on this issue. So I'm very familiar with it in a legal sense since I was being sued as a representative of the commonwealth of Massachusetts.     There is now a Supreme Court ruling that has three conditions for any state or municipality to do divestiture, and it's a hard standard. And I think one statute in Illinois has already been ruled unconstitutional.     There is a reluctance to support this because the fear is to have each state and municipality conducting their own foreign policy could create chaotic conditions. And once the legislation -- or the crisis is over and we want to change the sanctions, some states may not do it. That's still the case. There are still sanctions against South Africa in some state pension funds because of something that happened 20 years that is no longer the case.     That's the reason there is concern about the legislation.  CASEY:     Well, do you see it as an either/or or do you think there's a middle ground? I mean, I support this legislation, but let's talk academically for a second.  CASEY:     Don't you think we should create some pressure on companies who are making investment decisions or decisions about capital? Isn't there a way to balance that against the concerns that you raise?  NATSIOS:     There is already a lot of pressure. In fact many companies in Europe, where there are no sanctions, have announced they're not going to do any more investments in Darfur or in Sudan because of what's happened.     And I, frankly, think that's because of political realities. People are getting so upset over what's happening.     So there already is that kind of pressure.     The sanctions regimes that we are considering now, and the president has before him, in fact I think would have a much more immediate impact than divestiture legislation. Because there's a way of enforcing them very quickly.     The problem with this -- it has a symbolic value, the divestiture legislation. But it is actually not going to have a real effect on the Sudanese economy. It would take two to three years in my view, based on past experience, for it to have any kind of real experience.  CASEY:     Thank you.     The last question I have is in connection with the approach we take, whether -- there are obviously a lot of proposals about a multi- pronged deployment of peacekeeping troops and using all kinds of other pressure in addition to any kind of use of force.     But what's your sense of the right balance of that, in terms of a hybrid approach? And how do you think the administration views this?     Because when you talk to people -- and I think this is a sentiment we all feel. It's not just people who are outside of Washington. It's all of us. All of us want to do something.     And people are getting frustrated because they don't get a sense that there's any movement, that there's any progress, that there's any consensus. And I guess it's also a frustration because we feel -- and I don't think it's any one party of institution to blame, but there's a sense that there's -- we try, we talk about things, this government talks about strategies, we talk about approaches and they receive attention for a couple of days -- and I'm really honored to be part of this hearing that Senator Biden called -- but that there's no sustained effort to do something that has real impact.     Just from your own experience...  NATSIOS:     Well, Senator, I think a lot of the things we do we're not going to put in the newspaper. In fact, I actually had a ban on talking to the press. NATSIOS:     I haven't taken any reporters with me on my trips. When I went to Chad, I had a press conference for a Chadean newspaper.     I went to Libya a month ago. I didn't have any conversations publicly about what those discussions were. Because, frankly, I would not be -- people won't talk to me if they think I'm going to talk to the press.     So a lot of the things we do, we cannot discuss publicly, or my ability as a diplomat to influence other countries is going to be diminished.     The Chinese were not happy that I had a press conference in Beijing before I left China in January. I told them, I had to say something. I didn't talk about what they said; I just discussed what our position was.     And so I'm balancing the need for some confidentiality in these conversations with your need to know what we're doing. You have a right to know. I'm frustrated.     I mean, I have a lot of friends in Sudan. I've been going to Sudan for 18 years, Senator. And I have to tell you, I've seen an awful lot of suffering.     I've seen famines go on. I've been in charge of trying to save people's lives, not just in the south but in Darfur.     Two and a half million people died in the war between the north and the south -- two and a half million, almost all of them southerners.     I went through famines where there were mass graves. So I know what people are going through. I've seen the horror of it. And I know what happened in Darfur.     I was in Darfur in October of 2003, when these atrocities really started in earnest. And I think I was one of the first Westerners to have a press conference in Nairobi and explain that it appears a new civil war is starting. I mean, it's in a couple of books, that I had this press conference. It wasn't widely reported.     So I am deeply concerned about this. We do have a comprehensive plan. We're pursuing the plan. We've been having meetings with the Europeans on what we are doing to enforce these sanctions.    Chancellor Merkel said something quite remarkable two weeks ago, publicly, and so did the German defense minister. And, of course, the Germans are now in the presidency of the European Union.     Both of them said -- so I don't think it was a mistake or a misunderstanding or mistranslation -- they both said, We may have to impose sanctions -- European sanctions against Sudan.     And Chancellor Merkel said something very unusual in the -- Europeans always say, We need a Security Council resolution. She said, Even if we have no Security Council resolution, the Europeans may impose bilateral sanctions on Sudan.     That is quite significant. We have been in discussion with them. I met Dr. Solana, the equivalent of Secretary Rice in the European Union, in December.  NATSIOS:     His views on what needed to be done were the same as our views.     And he has been taking leadership there quietly. We've been meeting regularly with European diplomats. There have been working- level meetings in Washington on how sanctions work in the American context, how these enforcement mechanisms -- how powerful they are.     So we've been doing a lot of work, very quietly, to set the stage for this. And I think we've made a lot of progress.     There is a plan. We're implementing the plan. We can't always make all of it public, because it makes it much harder to get people to talk to us then.  CASEY:     Thank you for your work.  NATSIOS:     But there is something you can do. I remembered this.     The sanctions that exist in law that allow us to do what is on the president's desk have very weak civil penalties for corporations that violate them. If we could get legislation through Congress to dramatically increase the level of those financial penalties, it would be very helpful to the Treasury Department; it would be very powerful in terms of sending a message to countries or companies that were considering trying to get around the sanctions.     So if we could work with you on that, that is something we would agree -- not only enthusiastically agree to.  CASEY:     Thank you, sir.  BIDEN:     Senator Lugar?  LUGAR:     Well, thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.     I think that Senator Casey expresses, probably, the feeling each one of us have as we visit with our constituents who are seized with this issue in the same way that we are and want to know what they can do as groups, as church groups or civil groups in our society.     And you've been a very good interpreter for many months, given your own trips.     So I appreciate especially your testimony because it's founded, really, upon being there.    Let me just ask you to trace potential solutions.     If, finally, things began to move, physically what would happen to those who are now being persecuted or who are in the camps and in danger of being persecuted by the Janjaweed or whoever else might attack them?     In other words, try to describe the scene as to so-called rebels who are in the territory, who have a more civil governmental function perhaps, namely upsetting the government itself -- leaving aside the agriculture people who have lost their animals, lost their lands, can you give some scenario or sort of business plan of how life might become potentially normal for them? Who would need to do what?  NATSIOS:     Let me -- actually, I think, Senator, that is the question.     We talk a lot in vague, abstract terms about this. The reality is there are 2.5 million people in those camps who cannot support themselves. That's why we're spending $2.3 billion, along with the Europeans and the Canadians and the Japanese, to support those people in those camps.     They need to go back to their villages. They need to get their land back and their animals back.     I would estimate myself that 2 million to 3 million animals were looted from the farmers. People talk about the farmers versus the herders. Most of the farmers had small herds of animals. They didn't -- they were not nomadic.     But the investment account for these farmers is the animal herds that keep them alive during a drought, for example. And we need to recreate their livelihoods through a reconstruction program.     One of the things I've told the Arabs in Darfur, through press conferences (inaudible) I've met with some of them, is if we do a reconstruction program it's going to be for everybody. It can't be just for the people in the camps, because if it is, we will never have peace -- we'll never have peace.     We can't argue that all of the Arabs are committing all of this violence, because that is not true. And we in some ways have villainized the Arabs in a way that's not very helpful.     I have told them, if they sign a peace agreement there will be projects for the herders as well as for the farmers that will restore livelihoods and bring the economy back.  NATSIOS:     They actually have a symbiotic relationship. When the thing was functioning, when the economy was functioning, you know the herders don't eat their animals most of the time. They sell their animals and buy grown food from the farmers in the markets. And so the two -- that whole symbiotic relationship's been destroyed by this war.     If we do not deal with the property issues in the peace agreement, we're not going to have peace.     I think the way this would play out, just in terms of sequencing, is hopefully in the near future Jan Eliasson and Salim Salim will get the rebels to consolidate, not completely, behind one leader. We're not going to have a John Garang. Don't expect a John Garang. There isn't one for Darfur.     But if we consolidate those 15 movements into three or four movements and one negotiating position, the government will sit down with them and they will begin to negotiate amendments to the Darfur peace agreement.     The rebels have told me they just -- they want several issues that have to be dealt with. One is compensation for the damage done to their livelihoods. The amount in the DPA is $30 million. They said it was an insult. The Sudanese have told me they're willing to substantially increase that; they've used very figures. I think they're serious about that.     Two, there has to be a disarmament of both the rebels and the Janjaweed, and all militias -- the border patrol, all of the public defense force. There are too many people with heavy weapons. The place is awash in weapons. And unless they are confiscated, we're not going to have an end to the war.     I would add: The only institution in the world that has significant experience in demobilizing rebel forces and government forces in a war is the United Nations. I watched them do a lousy job at this 18 years ago in Somalia. They are doing excellent jobs now in many countries all over the world. They've developed expertise which is critically important here.     I told President Bashir, The rebels are never going to give their heavy weapons to you or your army under any peace agreement, I don't care what's written in it. They don't trust you. They're not going to give you the weapons. They told me, If the U.N. comes in and the U.N. troops, we will surrender our weapons to them if the Janjaweed do.     So we need the U.N. there not just for peace and stability now, to enforce a peace agreement or there's not going to be an end to this violence. Because if those weapons are not confiscated, Senator, people are not going to go back to their villages.  NATSIOS:     People in the camps have told me, We're not going back until we feel safe. And that means disarmament.     Once they go back, then we will start the reconstruction program, which will involve livelihoods, agriculture programs, nomad programs and, I might add, health and education programs.     I was in Darfur 17 years ago. There's no difference in Darfur now versus 17 years ago, except that one of the roads was paved in the capital city, the governor's mansion was rebuilt, the governor's offices were rebuilt and the airport was rebuilt.     There are no more health clinics, no more agriculture projects, no more water projects. And people in the rural areas are saying, Where's all this oil revenue going? It's not going to us. And that's a legitimate question. LUGAR:     How will the oil revenue figure into this? Is this a part of the agreement in broad terms, that comes with peace, that the government makes a commitment of this sort? What sort of commitment would we need to make?  NATSIOS:     There is a commitment in the DPA now, I believe -- I don't remember the exact sequencing, but in one year it's $200 million for reconstruction, the next year it's $300 million, that would go to Darfur from oil revenues from the central government.     Now, there's another interesting provision of the CPA, the comprehensive between the north and the south. It says in it -- and it's hopefully going to be enforced this year; we're waiting to see if the actual action is taken by the Sudanese government -- to take oil revenues and increase the provincial budgets of all the provinces. Most of the oil revenues are spent in Khartoum now. They never see it in the provinces. The provinces, all of them, are as impoverished in the north as the south.     Under the CPA this year, this calendar year, they're supposed to dramatically increase the revenues going to the provinces. The parliament -- the Sudanese parliament has approved a new budget with dramatically increased spending. The problem is the Ministry of Finance has not yet disbursed that money. We're waiting to have it disbursed. I put it in my written testimony. We're watching that.     If they disburse it, it will be a sign to me that they're serious about sharing oil revenues with the periphery of the country that has been discriminated against for decades in Sudan. LUGAR:     Thank you very much.     Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  BIDEN:     Senator Webb (OFF-MIKE) early on, and we understand you have another engagement. They have been kind enough to suggest that I yield to you.  WEBB:     Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I appreciate that.     And I also appreciate the fact that my colleagues would allow me to speak at this time.  WEBB:     Mr. Ambassador, first, I would like to thank you for the years that you've put into this issue. I've done a few of these in East Asia, pretty much in the same way. And I know how vital it is to really give a comprehensive look at what's going on.     I first started going back to Vietnam in 1991, when it was pretty much still a Stalinist state. And it's really valuable, when you're looking at issues of the moment, to, sort of, understand how this thing is played out on the ground.     And I would, again, express my appreciation to you for having spent so much of your life on this particular issue.     I would also like to say that I would agree with you on your comment about sanctions.     We can look pretty clearly, I think, at Iran, right now, the evidence that has come out, even with the limited sanctions that were put on Iran the first time around, to see that they're having to make some very hard decisions about whether they want to be isolated from their own people, on the one hand, and also from the international community.     And there are areas where sanctions are valuable and can work.     I wanted to get your -- a little bit more of your thoughts on the situation with China. You may know, I have written and spoken, for more than 20 years, about what I saw, even back in the late 1980s, as China's conscious, strategic axis with the Muslim world.     And we can see it particularly in South Asia; to a certain extent in the Middle East. And you can see it, to an extent, also in Africa. The Chinese investment in Africa, just over the past five years, has quadrupled. And a big part of that is in Sudan.     On the one hand, we have -- from your testimony, you were saying that we look to Beijing to join with the international community in applying more forceful measures should Khartoum become intransigent.     And then, on the other, your comments orally today, which, I think, have a validity, that the Chinese are playing a constructive role -- I'd like to see more of that -- and that they are a critical factor.     There's a Reuters article from today talking about the Chinese assistant foreign minister just returning from a three-day trip to Sudan.     And in that, he is saying that basically the international community should pay more attention to the way that China has been conducting its diplomacy in Sudan, you know, saying that Beijing was using its influence in its own way, rejected suggestions that there should be further threats, that the international community should pay attention to the way that the Chinese have been doing this in order to get better results.  WEBB:     So basically my question is, should we be more aligned with the way that China is doing this or is this a tandem approach? Or is it something else, by the way?  NATSIOS:     Yes, Senator.     I am aware, Senator, of your work in Vietnam. I ran USAID for five years, and there's an AID office there and has substantial programs. So I'm aware of the progress the country has made and your interest in that and your interest in China as well.     I learned over the years doing this sort of work on the development side that different countries act differently. I mean, United States -- Americans are more confrontational, more direct, more blunt, more black and white than even our European friends are.     I actually think that our leadership is critically important around the world, not just in Sudan, but in many other countries.     If every country behaved the way we did, I'm not sure we could always get done what we need to get done.     Sometimes more subtle approaches need to supplement what we're doing. And my sense from the Chinese, from three days of meetings in Beijing, is the Chinese are taking a more subtle approach that is really affecting the behavior of the Sudanese government.     As I said before, I believe the reversal of phase two, the heavy support package, where the Sudanese government basically had trashed the whole thing in a 14-page letter President Bashir sent to Ban Ki- moon a month ago -- when I was with him in his office he said, Mr. Natsios, I just signed the letter. He didn't give us a copy of it. If I had known it was 14 pages long I would have been a little distraught, because long letters mean bad things usually under these circumstances.     They reversed their positions two days ago  