
            	Senate Foreign Relations Committee Hearing on the Situation in Darfur
             April 11, 2007 
 BIDEN:  Thank you for being here, Mr. Ambassador. Welcome.  And welcome to our outside witnesses as well: Susan Rice, a former assistant secretary of state for Africa now at Brookings; Stephen Morrison, one of the leading think-tank experts on Africa from CSIS; and Larry Rossin, the leader of the Darfur -- Save Darfur movement.  Folks, it's been four years now since the crisis in Darfur erupted, four years since the genocide began. And it's been three years and nine months since Congress formally recognized this as genocide. The resolution in both the House and Senate passed three years and nine months ago and it passed unanimously. Not a single member denied the horror that was under way.  It's been three years and seven months since the administration added its own recognition. On September 9, 2004, in testimony before the committee, then-Secretary of State Colin Powell said clearly that the killings in Darfur was genocide. Shortly thereafter, so did President Bush. So now, all these years later, the question still remains: What are we going to do about it? What are we going to do to stop the slaughter, to return the survivors to their homes, to bring those responsible for the murder, rape and terror to justice and to build a lasting peace? What are we going to do about Darfur?  That's the question I've asked the ambassador. He's the administration's point person for Darfur. And like his predecessor, Deputy Secretary Zoellick, I have no doubt about his dedication and determination to do the right thing.  In December, the ambassador told a group of senators that Khartoum had until the end of the month to agree to the deployment of U.N. peacekeepers. That deadline has long since passed with no agreement by Khartoum to accept the peacekeepers and no reaction from the United States or the international community to its refusal.  Today this committee expects to hear from the ambassador a concrete plan of action. I hope you'll flesh out the administration's plan B, as was referred to earlier, and tell us how and when the administration will act on that plan.   BIDEN:  What should we do about Darfur? Well, that's the question I've asked our outside witnesses because there are almost certainly steps the administration is not planning to take that this committee should consider from these outside witnesses.  I have my own strongly held view on what we should do.  Most importantly, we need a comprehensive approach to what is a complex problem. We have to work all six sides of what John Prendergast, one of the leading experts on Darfur, rightly calls the policy Rubik's cube.  That would require the kind of resources, coordination and sustained engagement at the highest levels that, in my view, we have not yet seen or we have not only from this administration but also we have not seen from our partners around the world.  Let me quickly suggest some of the pieces of the complex approach that needs to be taken.  First, pursuing Khartoum is necessary, but not sufficient. We need to work on the major rebel groups as well.  Three years ago after visiting a refugee camp on the Chad-Darfur border, I met with the leaders of two of the major rebel groups. I urged them to come up with a common program. I offered to host them in Congress if they did. I warned them that if they did not, Khartoum would use their division as an excuse to do nothing.  We need a major, sustained diplomatic initiative to bring these rebels together.  Second, peacekeepers are essential, but they're not enough. We need a peace process.  If we end the violence but fail to achieve a sustained political settlement in Darfur, the violence will return. That puts a premium on a single peace process, supported by the international community, including the African Union and the United Nations, and managed by an oversight group of concerned countries.  Third, unilateral sanctions may be necessary, but will not suffice. We need a coordinated action from many other countries.  The United States has had significant sanctions on Khartoum since 1990. We're almost sanctioned out, to use a phrase the president used in another context.  For pressure to be meaningful, it must be multilateral. The Chinese, the Arab world, the Europeans, the African Union, everyone should be joining together in this campaign. But without American leadership, I see absolutely no prospect of that happening.    BIDEN:  Fourth, limiting our focus to Darfur is too narrow. We have to include the neighbors, especially Chad and the Central African   Republic.  I saw firsthand the spillover effects of Darfur -- of the Darfur crisis on Chad. And it has gotten much worse over the past three years. The crisis is putting an incredible strain on the neighbors. And, at the same time, they have tremendous influence with some of the key players. On Darfur diplomacy and initiatives, they -- excuse me, our Darfur diplomacy and initiatives must include the neighbors.  Finally, and most urgently, convincing Khartoum to accept a meaningful peacekeeping force should be our goal. But if it refuses, imposing such a force -- imposing such a force must be our mission.  I wish that the African Union had the mandate, the manpower and the material to do the job, but it does not.  We must set a hard deadline now on Khartoum to accept a hybrid A.U.-U.N. force. And we must start planning to impose that force if Khartoum refuses, and to take other concrete steps that can start saving lives now.  I've long advocated a NATO-led no-fly zone to stop the air support Khartoum provides to the Janjaweed. Recently, Khartoum has stepped up its slaughter from the skies. It is within our power to clip their wings.  Yes, a no-fly zone could make it more difficult for humanitarian groups to operate. So we should do everything possible to design it with their concerns in mind. And I expect to ask the witnesses about that.  I hope that we come out of this this morning with a clear plan for action. For too long, all of us have expressed our outrage at the destruction of Darfur without doing anything meaningful to stop it. I think it's long past time we must act, even if that action is in the face of the refusal of Khartoum to accommodate anything.  I realize that sounds reminiscent of what I said 12 years ago about Bosnia, but I think it is -- this is incredible.    BIDEN:  Our grandkids are going to be seeing their own version of Hotel Rwanda. It's going to make it look like it was not nearly as bad as what they're going to be seeing.  So I thank you very much.  I also want to point out that the senator -- Senator Lugar will be here, but he is testifying before the Armed Services Committee on Nunn-Lugar, and he's introducing a judge before the Judiciary Committee from Indiana. But he will be here.  I thank you again, Mr. Ambassador.  And I indicated to the senator from New Hampshire if he had an opening comment on the Republican side, he's welcome to it, but suggested...   SUNUNU:  If I might just offer a couple of brief comments?   BIDEN:  Please.   SUNUNU:  First, I want to mention that Senator Feingold isn't here, but he chairs the Africa Subcommittee -- I'm the ranking member. And I know he has a great interest in both the testimony from Mr. Natsios and in the situation.  There's no greater manmade humanitarian crisis that I can think of in the world today. And, Mr. Chairman, I think you've outlined very effectively the moral obligation that we have to pursue, really, a just outcome here.  The slow pace that we've seen is absolutely unacceptable. And we need not just a proper response and an effective plan, but we need to understand what the reasons are for such a slow pace.  I was in the room with you when Secretary Powell testified before our committee and talked about the genocide that was occurring. That was two and a half years ago and, to be sure, at that time, the expectations were much, much higher.  So we need to understand exactly what the reasons are for the slow pace of progress. And I think we need to be very frank: If there are disagreements within the State Department or within the administration about the path we should be pursuing, we need to know about that; we need to understand that, so that we can best decide as legislators what might be done to either help build consensus or pursue a particular path that might reinforce the goals and objectives of Mr. Natsios and those that have spent the most time in the region.    SUNUNU:  So I hope this hearing might put out some of those sort of frank assessments of what can be done better, what can be done differently and where there might be alternatives and options in order to deal with this incredible humanitarian crisis.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.   BIDEN:  Thank you very much.  Mr. Ambassador, again, welcome. Thank you. You've got a difficult job. We're anxious to hear what you have to say.   NATSIOS:  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for inviting me before the committee.  President Bush appointed me to this position in September of last year, about seven months ago. I -- actually, my first trip to Darfur was in 1990, 17 years ago, during the first Darfur war. This is the third war in 20 years and by far the most destructive.  I do have written testimony. I'm not going to read that. It's very long. But for the record I'd like to submit that, Mr. Chairman.   BIDEN:  Your remarks will be entered into the record.   NATSIOS:  Thank you.  I went then as a USAID official. My job then was to make sure people didn't die in what was a drought and a war at the same time. And I wasn't focused on the politics of it. It was a tribal war between the Fur people, an African tribe, and the Arabs.  And so -- and then there's another war in the 1990s between the Masalit tribe, which are Africans, and the Arabs.  And now this is the third war between the Masalit, the Fur and the Zaghawas and the Arabs.  And it's mostly the northern Arabs, not the southern Arabs. The southern Arabs, the southern Rizigot (ph), actually have been neutral in the war. And the Nasir (ph) of the southern Rizigot (ph) have actually helped protect some of the African tribes from attacks from the Janjaweed.  So I think it's a very bad idea to assume this is all Africans versus all Arabs. That is simply not true. And it may make peace harder if people think the bad guys are all the Arabs and the good guys are all of the African tribes. That's simply not the case.  The war has been dangerously regionalized at this point. It's destabilized Chad. It's poured now into the Central   African Republic. And we are very worried about the regional consequences of this, not just from a political stand, but from a humanitarian standpoint.    NATSIOS:  There were 400 people killed or who died from exposure in attacks in Chad in the last week -- which is very disturbing -- according to reports coming in from the field.  We believe the only way to deal with this is ultimately a negotiated settlement, because over the long term we have to have some kind of an agreement between the people who live there, who've been at war with each other -- with one side with support of the government of Sudan -- for the economy and the social structure and the social fabric of the province to be put back together again.  We think coercive measures will be necessary, in fact. In fact, are necessary.  When you said, Senator, I gave them a deadline of the end of December, actually they met the deadline for that phase.  In December, I met with President Bashir, and I told him that he had said under no circumstances would there ever be a blue helmet, ever, in Darfur, under phase one, phase two or phase three of the Kofi Annan plan which we negotiated on November 16th with 30 countries and three international organizations at the meeting.  And he said, That's still my position.  I said, That's completely untenable. And I said, We're going to have to impose these new coercive measures if you refuse to do that.  He agreed, at that point, to allow blue helmets. And blue helmets are in Darfur now. Not a large number of them, but he has agreed to all of the provisions of the first phase, which is about 190 people.  And so, there was, in fact, some action. But it's very slow.  And there's a reason it's slow. The Sudanese government sees the peacekeeping force as regime threatening. And the reason they see that is they believe that if a U.N. force enters Darfur they will begin to arrest people for war crimes trials in Europe under the ICC. And there is a fear -- I've told them, That is not in the resolution; that's not what they are there for.  They've said, Well, it may not be now, but once the troops arrive, you can change the resolution later on. In any case, that's the fear. And it's a real fear because, of course, they've committed crimes and they're going to be held accountable. And we know that the ICC has already announced they're investigating people and will be shortly making some indictments of some major figures in the regime.  We believe, finally, that a negotiated settlement is the only way, but we must deal with the property, livelihoods and security issues for the people in the province in a peace agreement that has to be implemented.    NATSIOS:  There's a lot of broken agreements that have been signed over the years. I've watched them for 17 years between the north and the south. They sign agreements, they sign agreements and then they don't implement any of them.  So it's not a function of simply signing things. It's a function of doing them.  Once the blue helmets arrived in Darfur under phase one, I complimented the public for agreeing to what they did agree to. But before that I didn't talk about it because I wasn't sure they were going to actually physically let them in.  Where are our diplomatic efforts and our policy?  Our focus is on human rights and on humanitarian issues. We have no military or economic interests in Darfur. I repeat that because this is a refrain that is being used to sort of exaggerate among the Arab tribes what the purpose of the United States and other countries' interest in Darfur are. They're for oil. They're for building a military base. Other ridiculous arguments are being made to fuel tensions -- ethnic tensions within the country in a very helpful way.  We believe that we need to energize, although this is not the purpose of this hearing, the implementation of the comprehensive peace agreement between the north and south. We think there's a direct relationship between peace in the south and peace in Darfur.  We have asked the southerners, who are actually the most influential with the rebel groups, to get involved in this. I asked them last December. I asked them again in March. And they have done that. Salva Kiir is getting involved, who's the president of the south, and the first vice president of the northern government.  At first the northern government said, Absolutely not. You will not do this. Over time, we've I think convinced the Sudanese government that it was in their interest to have them involved. And they are involved now.  The rebels I met with in January in Chad told me the most influential group for them were the southerners. Because together the south and Darfur make up half the country.  And the model for the DPA -- the Darfur peace agreement that was signed last May -- is the comprehensive peace agreement between the north and the south. They see their brothers in the south as a model for what they want to do in Darfur.    NATSIOS:  We have encouraged -- I have personally encouraged. I spent a week in Chad in January working with the rebels and working with Jan Eliasson and Salim Salim to unify the rebels. They're broken down now into 14 or 15 different groups, depending on the week.  It is a very chaotic situation. One of the problems with the security situation at this point, it is not two sides fighting against each other. It's anarchy. The government has lost control of large parts of the province now. And some of the rapes, by the way, that are going on, are by rebels, raping women in their own tribes.  We know in one of the refugee camps that's now controlled by the rebels formally there have been terrible atrocities committed by the rebels against the people in the camps.  We also believe that there needs to be one negotiating process. When I started last year, there were six different tracks for negotiations between the rebels and the government, and with the Sudanese government. And we said, That's just not going to work. There has to be one route.  And we've actually moved toward that. And that is what part of the Addis agreement was, to have just the U.N. and the A.U. track. Our job was to support them, not to set up separate, independent negotiations which will be used as a mechanism for forum shopping by the rebels or even the government. We don't want that to happen.  The only way this is going to be solved is a comprehensive settlement that is between two sides, with one negotiating position on each side, which we're encouraging the rebels to have.  I might add the southern agreement would never have taken place if there were 12 John Garangs. There was one John Garang leading the southern negotiations and one northern government official, the vice president, Ali Osman Taha, who negotiated the agreement.  It would never have happened if there were multiple parties on each side with different agendas and different positions.    NATSIOS:  The current situation is very troubling to us because of the government's loss of control, because of rebel attacks on aid agencies which are now increasing.  Of the 120 vehicles that were stolen from aid agencies -- and by the way, the United States government has spent $2.4 billion keeping people alive over just the last two years.  We are, by far, the largest international donor. I think 65 percent of all the food comes from the United States to feed people; 2.5 billion people are in over 200 displaced camps all over Darfur.  And there are hundreds of NGOs and U.N. agencies that are at work. And they all have heavy funding from the United   States.  But 128 trucks were looted last year. The great bulk of those, actually, were from the rebels, and a few from the Janjaweed militias.  We now have Arab-on-Arab violence. The principal people getting killed right now are one Arab tribe fighting with other Arab tribes.  Since February 11th, there has actually been no aerial bombardments, according to very credible sources on the ground. So there's been two months of no aerial bombardments.  Secondly, the principal deaths since the beginning of the year actually have been Arabs being killed by this Arab-on-Arab violence.  There have been about 80,000 new IDPs in January and February. That slowed down in February and March.  And right now, we're seeing a relative lull in the fighting in Darfur. The fighting, however, has intensified to a dangerous degree in Chad. And that's where the bulk of the people getting killed are at this point.  I'd just like to make a quick point on the CPA, the comprehensive peace agreement.  It is not the case that the CPA is not being implemented. It is being implemented, parts of it.  A billion dollars in oil revenues have been transferred from the north to the south. That's a significant change.  There is no war in the south. There is no famine in the south. The economy's picking up. Roads are being built -- a lot with U.S. government support, I might add -- and health clinics built and schools being built. teachers being trained. The economy is moving.  However, the transformational provisions of the CPA, which John Garang insisted on being in there -- elections, the sharing of revenue, not just with the south but all of the provinces in the north. Because many of the rural provinces are getting no money from the oil revenues, at all. That is in the CPA. It's not just a transformation of the south.  Those difficult provisions of transformation are not being implemented. They're the most dangerous in terms of the stability of the central government and its own interests. And it sees those interests under attack right now because of the instability in Darfur. And so they have been unwilling to implement those provisions.  It is critically important that the CPA be implemented, if we're going to have a model for a successful implementation of a peace agreement in Darfur.  There is little progress in border demarcation. There's an impasse in Abyei.  I've raised all these issues repeatedly with President Bashir and told him, if he wants to stabilize Darfur, he needs to implement the CPA with the south.    NATSIOS:  Because if the rebels see that the CPA is being implemented, I believe there's a greater likelihood they will return to the negotiating table.  Our policy is in three areas.  That is, to stabilize the humanitarian situation, particularly -- while the death rates in the camps are well below emergency levels, we are nervous because access by the NGOs has deteriorated because of the anarchy in the province now and the attacks on aid agencies, which has led to a couple of them leaving, a very dangerous situation.  Two, we are very nervous about the rainy season that's coming up. We have a lot of food -- more than enough food in the capital cities. But the problem is getting it without attacks on the convoys into the camps before the rainy season starts in nine weeks.  Secondly, our political solution is simply to get the rebels back to the negotiating table with the government. The government has not put precondition other than one: They want to use the DPA as a base for further negotiations with additional amendments, and they have told me they will be flexible on that.  I talk to Jan Eliasson quite often. He's an old friend of mine. He's leading the negotiating teams. And he has a plan in place for how we can proceed in the next month to move toward that.  And finally, we want the full three phases of the Bashir -- I'm sorry, the Kofi Annan-Ban Ki-moon plan that was agreed to do in Addis implemented.  As of today, the U.N. has announced, with the A.U., that the Sudanese government has agreed, it appears, to what was called the heavy support package, phase two, which they trashed in a letter to Ban Ki-moon a month ago when I was -- they signed it when I was there -- literally when I was in the city. They signed it and sent it but not give us a copy.  They appear to have reversed themselves on that. Now, I have to say appeared because there's a long history of them signing things, announcing these things and communiques and then not doing them.  So what will be the proof of this is whether or not we're allowed to go ahead with the work we're going to do in building more camps to house more soldiers.    NATSIOS:  The big impediment to phase one has been the absence of barracks, which we are now constructing for the 190 troops who will be arriving. And then there will be assistance that will be given by the international community for the construction for the additional 3,000 people under phase two.  They have not agreed to phase three, and there are two remaining issues on phase three, called the hybrid force.  One is U.N. command and control. I put U.N. command and control in the text of the Addis agreement. I insisted on it. I said, That is a bottom line for the United States. If there is no U.N. command and control, we do not support the agreement.  Two -- and the Sudanese government is resisting that. They don't want orders coming to these troops from New York directly.  Two, they do not want any troops from outside Africa. We believe -- and I believe there's people in the United Nations who can confirm this -- that there are not sufficiently trained peacekeeping troops in Africa to handle this; that we need troops from other peacekeeping countries, outside Africa, which the Sudanese have been very resistant on.  And there are a number of other, smaller issues, but those are the two central issues at this point.  Let me just conclude by saying we were about to impose plan B, at least this phase of it. And we did not want to announce them, frankly, when a congressional delegation was in Khartoum; we didn't think that was particularly good timing.  And then there's been a request made by Ban Ki-moon, the secretary general, of our secretary of state and of me -- I met with him last Monday, and he repeated, I need two weeks to four weeks to try to see if the current round of negotiations is going to work to get the paralysis that we're facing moving.  As a courtesy to the secretary general, we've agreed to that delay. But there is a finite limit to it. And if we continue to see stonewalling, then those measures are going to be implemented.    NATSIOS:  It's up to the president. It's his decision to make. But I know where he is on this: He's as angry as all of us are on this and wants action.  But the secretary general requested it. He did it publicly; it's not a secret. And we've agreed to wait a short time while we let the negotiations that he's undertaking now take their course.  I'd be glad to answer questions, Mr. Chairman.   BIDEN:  Thank you, Mr. Secretary -- Mr. Ambassador.  I now understand why you have not begun to implement plan B, but what are some of the specific coercive steps in plan B?   NATSIOS:  There are three.  And I might add, plan B is a series of things that will be phased over time, depending on how things go. If we see a deterioration of the Sudanese government's attitude and cooperation on phase one and phase two, which they've clearly agreed to, then there are going to be other measures.  But the measures now that are before the president are, number one, personal sanctions against one rebel leader who's an obstructionist.  I mean, the perception is all the rebel leaders are John Adams and Abraham Lincoln and George Washington. They are not.  Some of them are very able people. I've known them for many years. But some of them are dangerous extremists. And one of them has been obstructing any peace deal, and he is on the list. Two war criminals, people who think have committed terrible atrocities, are on that list. And there will be travel bans, there will be bans on -- confiscation of bank accounts and other measures against individuals.  Is it going to have a big effect? Are they traveling widely in the United States? No, they're not.   