
            	BIDEN Calls on White House Counsel Fielding to Ensure President, Vice President Preserve Documents Relating to Destroyed CIA Interrogation Tapes
             December 11, 2007 
 Washington, DC - Former Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee Joseph R. Biden, Jr. (D-DE) sent a letter to Fred Fielding, Counsel to the President, asking him to confirm that the White House and the Office of the Vice President are preserving all documents related to the Central Intelligence Agency's policies and programs regarding the detention and interrogation of individuals involved in international terrorism.  In the past, the Office of the Vice President has argued that it is not subject to Executive Orders regarding the preservation of documents.  Sen. Biden's letter comes just days after reports that White House officials were aware of the existence of CIA interrogation tapes and were involved in discussions regarding whether they should be preserved.     The full text of the letter follows.   December 11, 2007     Mr. Fred Fielding Counsel to the President The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20500   Dear Fred:   On December 10, 2007, White House Press Secretary Dana Perino stated that you issued a written directive to White House employees to preserve documents related to the destruction of the CIA interrogation tapes.  Ms. Perino did not provide a copy of the directive, however, and she was unable to answer questions as to its breadth and scope.     Please confirm that the directive to preserve documents applied to the Executive Office of the President, including the National Security Council, in addition to immediate White House staff.  In light of the Office of the Vice President's record of fatuous arguments that it is not subject to the authority of the President, please also confirm that the directive included the Office of the Vice President and that the Office of the Vice President intends to comply.   I appreciate your prompt response.   Sincerely,    Joseph R. Biden, Jr. 