
            	CNN's Inside Politics
             May 12, 2005 
 This is a partial transcript of CNN's JUDY WOODRUFF'S INSIDE POLITICS from April 12, 2005.   JUDY WOODRUFF, Host: All right, Ed is at the White House for us right now. Ed, I'm going to ask you to stick around for just a few moments.   But right now, I do want to bring in one of the senior Democrats on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. He is Senator Joe Biden of Delaware. Senator, thank you for being with us.   SEN. JOE BIDEN, (D) DELAWARE: Happy to be here.      WOODRUFF: Senator, will Democrats try to filibuster John Bolton's nomination on the floor?      BIDEN: I'm sure there's going to be significant debate. Whether or not there's a filibuster, it's too early to tell.      WOODRUFF: Do you think -- then how much doubt is there in your find that Mr. Bolton's nomination will be confirmed?      BIDEN: Well, look, I think if I told you I didn't know, but if I told you two weeks ago you were going to hear a statement as tough and as concise and as penetrating as you heard from the senator from Ohio, Mr. Voinovich, a Republican, I think maybe you and others would have doubted it. I still think there is a sufficient amount of people of rectitude on the floor of the Senate, that the facts will matter.   But I don't know. I mean, obviously, his chances are -- but it's clear he did not have a support of the majority of the members of the United States Senate Foreign Relations Committee to be confirmed. In that committee. Clear he did not have the support. That's really unusual.   WOODRUFF: For all the criticism, though, even from Senator Voinovich -- he did go on to say, and I'm quoting, he said, I'm not so arrogant to think that I should impose my judgment and perspective of the U.S. position in the world community on the rest of my colleagues. In other words, he went ahead and voted him to floor because he said this ought to be voted by all the members of the Senate. Why wouldn't you and other Democrats share that view?   BIDEN: Well, Judy, if we were going to vote everything on the floor, there's no sense in having a committee, is there?      WOODRUFF: Well, I'm asking you.      BIDEN: Well, I'm asking you back. You know the answer to the question. The answer to the question is, we're supposed to give our best opinion. And when you're a Republican taking on the president of the United States where he, as you said, invested a great deal of capital, I think it's not inappropriate for a Republican senator to say, I don't like this guy, but I'm not going to deny my president the opportunity to have a vote on the floor of the United States Senate.   But the fact of the matter is we are supposed to vote yes or no. That's the purpose of the committee, to give recommendations to our colleagues. And we have killed a number of nominees, Democrat and Republican, because the majority of the members of the committee doing the oversight did not think they should be confirmed.   It is also not unusual -- it's rare, but not unusual, to say almost always coming from the party of -- the senator in the party of the president, Look, I know my guy's mad enough at me as is. I'm going to let this go to the floor. I'm not going to presume to tell my Republican colleagues how to vote. Let them vote. And I don't have any problem with that. But you ask why I voted no and others voted no. Because I don't even think he should get to the floor.   WOODRUFF: How strongly do you feel that this is the wrong choice? I mean, do you support a filibuster?      BIDEN: I'll make that judgment when we get to the floor.      WOODRUFF: You were asking, Senator, for more information from the State Department on John Bolton. You didn't get it. If that information were to come forward, do you think something could potentially change your mind about him?   BIDEN: No. All it could do is say that he did not do additional things that are implied by others that he did do. Look, the fact that he dealt with intelligence analysts the way he did -- and that's not what these requests are about. We have all that information. The fact that seven major, major figures in the Republican administration said and came openly out to say, without us asking them, that this man should not be confirmed, is overwhelming.   In all your years in this town, can you ever remember that happening? It's a rhetorical question. I know I'm not supposed to ask the questions. But I bet you can't think of any time that's ever happened. I know I can't. That's incredible.   WOODRUFF: All right, well, we are going to leave it there. And you're right, I'm not going to answer your question, Senator. At least not right here.   BIDEN: No, no, no. I don't want -- you shouldn't have -- I'm not implying you should.      WOODRUFF: All right, Senator Biden, we appreciate it. Thank you very much for coming out to talk to us.      BIDEN: Thanks an awful lot, Judy.      WOODRUFF: Thank you.      To visit CNN's Inside Politics website, go to:    CNN.com   