
            	Senator Biden on MSNBC Hardball
             July 13, 2006 
 U.S. Senator Joseph Biden (D-De) Is Interviewed On MSNBC'S Hardball      July 13, 2006      NORAH O'DONNELL: Is the situation spiraling out of control? Is the region on its way to a full-scale war? Senator Joe Biden of Delaware is the top Democrat on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, and he's just returned from the region and Iraq. Senator, first let me ask your reaction to what is happening today in Israel with Lebanon. BIDEN: Well, you know, I just listened to your reporter on the scene. I think he had it pretty right. I think it's going to not spiral into a full-blown war, but I do think there's going to be an awful lot of trouble for the next several months and I don't think our exhortations from here about: Let the Israelis take care of Hezbollah and Hamas and us encourage Syria not to act -- I mean, we're kind AWOL here in terms of generating international pressure on Syria and on Lebanon, to deal with what is an obvious, obvious, obvious breach of security on the part of Hezbollah.   O'DONNELL: You know, Senator, I was so struck today by one of the reports in The Washington Post today, specifically by Robin Wright, that pointed out the challenges that President Bush is facing. Three fronts in the Middle East: Iran, Iraq and Israel. And at the center of all of those is Iran, trying to fiddle and influence in all three of those situations. What more do we need to do now that Iran, part of the axis of evil, is essentially complicating matters for not only Israel but the United States?   BIDEN: Well, you know, one of the things we should have done two years ago is speak with them; actually have direct contact with them. If you notice, we took two and a half years to even get to the point where we said we would sit down with our European allies and deal with them. And so what happens is now we're so bogged down in Iraq, because of the absolute, because of not such a sound policy as to how to proceed by this administration, that the rest of the area knows that they can pretty well act with impunity without a whole lot of concern about U.S. counter-reaction. And we have kind of lost the support of an awful lot of the world -- thinking our judgment is sound enough, they want to join us in collective pressure, with the exception of what is going on in Iran now, which is sort of the last ditch effort on the part of Europe and the United States, sitting down with them now.   O'DONNELL: Let me read you something that was in the New York Times today to help people know where Hezbollah and Hamas are getting much of their funding from: Hezbollah and Hamas are part of a complex four-way relationship with each other and Iran and Syria. Iran helped to create, finance and train Hezbollah. Hamas' political leader, Khalid Mashaal, lives and works in Damascus. The expectation among political and foreign affairs analysts is that Hamas and Hezbollah would never have taken such provocative actions without at least the tacit approval of their sponsors in Tehran or Damascus. Why shouldn't Americans at home be concerned? The stock market is tanking; oil prices up; Tehran and Damascus trying to drag Israel into a regional conflict?   BIDEN: They should be concerned. They should be concerned, but the idea that Israel is in a position they're going to strike Iran and there be a regional war in that sense, I don't think is realistic -- the idea that Iran and Syria want to make it hell for Israel, try to split the rest of the world, Israel, by, instead of talking about them, us talk about whether or not Israel is overreacting, Israel is restraining itself, Israel is doing it exactly the way it should be done. I'm not prepared to flyspeck Israel's response to what is an outright aggression and after they have, in both cases, both in Gaza and in southern Lebanon, done the right thing. I mean, once again, the focus is on the wrong group of actors. But do I think that this is going to result in Israel concluding that they need a full-scale invasion of Lebanon and/or of Syria and/or of Iran? I don't think that's a reasonable option for them. And so I think you're going to see this low grade, but very, very serious kind of conflict for a while. The question is: What's the rest of the world going to do and are we likely to lead it to some kind consensus to put collective pressure on the parties?   O'DONNELL: Senator, I must ask your opinion on this. The president has made the case repeatedly that a democracy in Iraq would help make the larger Middle East safer, that it would help combat terrorism, the larger war on terrorism. Is it the case that the war in Iraq has led in part to what has happened today in the actions by Hamas and Hezbollah?   BIDEN: Yes. Yes. Look, the big debate, Norah -- and you've talked to me about it and others three years ago -- is the road to peace in Israel through Beirut? Is the road to peace through Baghdad or is it through Israel and the Palestinian area? This administration argued the road to peace in Israel was through Baghdad. In fact, it has made the road to peace in Israel more difficult, because of the miscalculation, because of the bringing this to the center and becoming a center for terror that didn't exist before. And because we are so tied down in terms of our responsibilities and our concerns in Iraq, there's very little time for, not just militarily and economically, but in terms of the brain power of the administration. You know, the same dozen people, in any one administration, make all of the important decisions. And these guys now and women are so tied down on dealing with Iraq, and it being out of control, that essentially we've been -- use the phrase AWOL in terms of an overall strategy for the rest of the region.   O'DONNELL: Let me get you specifically on that point because the soldier that was captured, the Israeli soldier was captured more than two weeks ago -- and just yesterday were -- two members of the president's National Security Council arrived in the region. Has this administration ignored or not paid enough attention to the problems in the Middle East?   BIDEN: I don't want people thinking I don't think the president and the administration cares about Israel; they do. They care deeply about it.   O'DONNELL:  Of course, they do.      BIDEN: I'm not saying you're implying that. I just want to make sure that this isn't misinterpretive of what I'm about to say. Look, the idea -- you just made my point, by pointing out that only yesterday -- only yesterday -- what do you think would have been the case were we not tied down in Iraq? I imagine you would have had an immediate response. You would have been immediately on the phone as president of the United States with France and the European Union, with the Arab neighbors. You would have been immediately beginning to engage directly with Abu Mazen, as well as Olmert. You would have been engaged -- but, in fact, they weren't.   O'DONNELL:  All right.  Thank you to Senator Joe       Biden.  We appreciate it.   