
            	Senator Biden on CNN Situation Room
             June 13, 2006 
 THE SITUATION ROOM      President Bush Heads Home After Iraq Surprise; Congressional Reaction To President Bush's Visit; Murtha Suspends Bid To Be House Majority Leader; Rove Won't Be Charged In CIA Leak Case; White House Capitalizing On Recent News; Joseph Biden Interview   Aired June 13, 2006 - 16:00   ET      Body:      We are joined now by the ranking Democrat on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Joe Biden of Delaware.      SEN. JOSEPH BIDEN (D), DELAWARE: Hey, Wolf.       BLITZER: Senator, thanks very much for coming in.      BIDEN: Happy to be here.      BLITZER: You have got to be a little -- you have got to be a little encouraged by the president's decision to make this trip...   BIDEN: Oh, I am.      BLITZER: ... and meet the Iraqi government eyeball to eyeball.       BIDEN: I am.       I think it's a great opportunity. And I think that the setting- up of their government, coupled with the fact that Zarqawi has been killed, presents an opportunity for the president to change course, set out a plan, just like he changed course in Iran. I think it's good. I'm encouraged, depending on what he said to the Iraqis.   BLITZER: So, you're not like some of those Democrats, who say this is only a publicity stunt? BIDEN: Well, that will remain to be seen. If, come September, things are just as bad as they are now, then, it wasn't much more than that.   But, look, everybody knows three things have to be done in order to have a shot to bring our troops home and leave something stable behind. The first thing is, you have got get the Sunnis to buy in. So, you have got to amend the constitution to give them a piece of the oil revenues.   The second thing you have to do, everybody knows, is, you have got to purge the militia out of the Iraqi army and out of the police force, so the Iraqis have a force that can actually gain the confidence of all the people, and they can restore order.   And the third thing you have got to do, is, you have got to keep the neighbors out of Iraq. And that can only occur if we call an international conference, the major powers, and work out an arrangement where all the neighbors stay out of Iraq. And, I mean, I hope that's what the president is talking to the Iraqi government about.   BLITZER: This new Gallup poll asked the American public: Does the U.S. -- do you believe the U.S. will win in Iraq? In April, only 39 percent said yes. Now it's up to 48 percent.   You have criticized the administration for not having a strategy to win in Iraq.      BIDEN: That's right.       BLITZER: You said that the strategy was to avoid defeat.      BIDEN: That's right.       And that's what it has been so far. That's why I'm hopeful, Wolf. I'm hopeful. Look, the way I think of these things, when people ask me, what would I do, I think of, well, what would I say to president, if the president said, Senator, what should I do now?   And, up to now, all the president has said is, we have a unity government. And it's up to the Iraqis. They will get the job done.   Maybe this trip to Iraq means that he's going and saying, look, folks, you have got to be resolute in bringing down the militias. You have got to be resolute in including the Sunnis, no if, ands, or buts. And we will help you keep the neighbors out.   If he's doing those three things, that's a plan. That's a plan how we can get our forces out by the end of next year and leave a stable government behind.   BLITZER: You don't -- I take it you disagree with Senator John Kerry when he says, just set a deadline by the end of this year to withdraw troops.   BIDEN: Well, I haven't heard John say that. If he did, I do disagree. Setting a date is not a plan.       I understand Senator Kerry's frustration and the frustration of millions of Americans. But that is not a plan. The plan relates to, what are you going to leave behind, as well as, how do you get out?   And as I said -- I said to my colleagues today in a planning meeting on Iraq, I turned and I said, gentlemen, if the president turned and said, what do we do now, what would you say? Leave by 2006? Is that a plan?   What do you do in the meantime? That's what we need. And the president, hopefully, is going to come back and articulate to American public what he said and did with the Iraqi government to give it a chance, not to just stand up, but stand together.   If you don't get them standing together, all the king's horses and all the king's men are not going to stop a civil war, Wolf.   BLITZER: You see any evidence? Do you believe this new Iraqi government will take concrete steps to disband these Shiite militias, whether the Badr organization, or the Mahdi militia, and to -- to unify the country and to disband these various groups?   BIDEN: Put it another way. If they don't -- if they don't -- there will be a civil war. There will be increased sectarian violence.   And, if that's the case, keeping American forces, whether it's 100,000 or 138,000, caught in the middle of that is -- would be a tragedy.   And, so, they better. That's why the president should have an altar call with these guys, should be saying, look, OK, you've got a government. We will support you. But you've got to be resolute along with us in purging the police of the death squads. You've got to be resolute along with us over the next six months in purging the military of the militia. And you got to make it clear you have got to unite, Shia, Kurd and Sunni,. No more militia involvement, and you can be integrated into the military.   If you don't do that, how are they going to establish any resemblance of security in a country? And, if they didn't establish security, how are they going to get the electricity turned on, the sewage working, people back to work, and have any kind of country?   BLITZER: We have time for one final question, unrelated. Karl Rove, off the hook from the special prosecutor, what do you make of this?   BIDEN: Well, I make of it that there weren't facts to make the case against him. And I respect the prosecutor, because, obviously, there was overwhelming pressure for him to do something.   I think the hardest job for a prosecutor is not to indict. And I trust his judgment, that, if he said there weren't the facts here to indict, that he shouldn't. And Karl Rove, as far as I'm concerned, then, is innocent of any wrongdoing.   BLITZER: Joe Biden, the senator from Delaware, thanks very much for joining us.       BIDEN: Thank you.       END   