
            	CBS Face the Nation
             March 13, 2005 
 This is a partial transcript of CBS's FACE THE NATION from March 13, 2005.   BOB SCHIEFFER, host: And we're back now with Senator Dick Lugar and Senator Joe Biden. Senator Lugar, of course, is chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee.   Gentlemen, I apologize for the voice that I have today. I talked a little more than I normally do this week. And I've simply talked myself hoarse.   Senator Lugar, I get the feeling, talking to the secretary this morning, that she's fairly optimistic about a lot of things in the Middle East. Do you think things are--Is there reason for optimism in that part of world?   Senator RICHARD LUGAR (Republican, Indiana): Yes, there is substantial reasons, not only in the countries that you discussed, but likewise Egypt, where Mr. Noor has been released from prison, and activities toward a multiparty election may occur. And the elections in Saudi Arabia, albeit limited, but the first toe in the water in a situation that hasn't seen much democracy. Quite apart from the well-known elections now in Afghanistan and in Iraq, for example, even in Ukraine, which is not the Middle East, but it's a part of a general feeling that the president's policy of emphasizing democracy and our ability really to seize those moments is paying off.   Now the danger to this is that each of these is very fragile. The need for constant United States activity and for sophisticated activity--for instance, in Lebanon, how strongly should we be pushing and how strongly should we allow Lebanese to work out? And I thought Secretary of Rice was very deft this morning in indicating that democracy often changes the views of people but not if we are the issue in the election.   SCHIEFFER: Are you in as good a humor this morning, Senator Biden, as Senator Lugar and the secretary seem to be?      Senator JOSEPH BIDEN (Democrat, Delaware; Ranking Member, Foreign Relations Committee): Actually, I am. The thing I'm most optimistic about, Bob, is sort of the change of policy of the administration. We're getting Powellism without Powell now. The UN is deeply involved with us. We've signed on with the French. We have a coordinated policy with the Europeans with regard to Iran. It's been long overdue. I think the key, as Dick said, there's--requires some real sophistication here to make sure these hopeful opportunities don't get derailed. And I think the secretary is doing a first-rate job. And I really think that if we stay this course, we got a shot of literally affecting the course of history in that region for the next generation.   Mr. McMANUS: Senator Biden, let me follow up on that, and specifically in the case of Iran, where the administration has given the Europeans the go-ahead to try and negotiate an outcome there.   Sen. BIDEN: Right.      Mr. McMANUS: I think we all know that the president's patience on Iran isn't unlimited, that Vice President Cheney's patience on Iran isn't unlimited. How long do you think the United States should be prepared to let those negotiations run?   Sen. BIDEN: As long as they can keep Vice President Cheney from talking. Look, well, here's what's happened. You may remember when Dick and I held hearings for the confirmation of Secretary Rice, I asked her, I said, `What would you do if in fact there was an absolute verifiable commitment on missiles and on nuclear capability?' And she said, `We have a lot more at stake with Iran than just that.' Then we asked her the question about, `Well, why aren't you more actively engaged with the Europeans in giving them more carrots and insisting they put more sticks into the deal?' Well, what have the Europeans said? They said if we throw in engine parts and parts for their domestic aircraft and we throw in WTO, which we did, that they will, in fact--if the Iranians don't negotiate in good faith--they'll take it to the Security Council.   This is the way we should be going about it. Do I think that the Iranians will foreswear their quest for nuclear capability? I'm pessimistic. But if they don't, we'd better be on the same page as Europe so we can, in fact, go to the next step, which will be serious sanctions--European sanctions.   Mr. McMANUS: Senator Lugar, what Senator Biden seems to be describing is a process where we almost set up these negotiations to fail, to show the Europeans the Iranians won't deal, to show the Europeans we have some good faith there. How long do you think it takes this to get to the UN?   Sen. LUGAR: Well, it was important that we withdrew our objections to two of the European negotiating demands, and that's what we have done so that we came together with them. The president's trip confirmed that. I think it's important to point out in Iran there's going to be an election in the spring. Maybe Mr. Rafsanjani will return, maybe he will not. But a change in political complexion. I think it will be difficult for the Iranians to come to final settlement with the election still at hand and potential changes of leadership.   Now down the trail, time may be on our side. By that I mean younger Iranians again and again that are polled are saying they like Americans. They like the idea of greater freedom for themselves. They are not in control, and they are not revolutionaries. But they are a factor. If a majority of your country is under 25, and they're having these thoughts, then for a while the diplomatic strategy does appear to be the best interest of everybody involved.   SCHIEFFER: I think--I'm sorry. Go ahead, Doyle.      Mr. McMANUS: Well, I just wanted to make sure I understood the implication of that. You're pointing to the fact that Iran is going into an election season. That's going to make it tough for them to compromise. Are you in effect advising the administration that they ought to let this diplomacy play out for the better part of this year?   Sen. LUGAR: Well, I'm not saying for the better part of any period of time. You know, the question was how long, and it would be inadvisable to set deadlines and timetables. This situation, I think, may be working in our favor but in favor of the Iranian people likewise. And that, I think, is important. Let diplomacy have full scope here.   SCHIEFFER: Senator Biden.      Sen. BIDEN: I'd like to emphasize the point Dick just made. Those elections in June, I think, can be really consequential in terms of whether or not we are likely to get a real negotiation. I think we should let them play out at least through those elections, and they may have a positive impact, could have a negative impact. But I don't think you're going to see anything really hard until after those elections in June.   SCHIEFFER: Let me ask you this, Senator Biden, and then I'd like to talk to Senator Lugar about it. I think we all understand why it is important to get some diplomacy going in Iran. They're on the verge of building a nuclear weapon. But I wonder if there are not a lot of people out there this morning listening to us saying why are they devoting so much attention to Lebanon? I mean, what kind of a threat does that pose to use or the peace in the region?   Senator Biden, just give me an answer to that in layman's question.      Sen. BIDEN: Well, I think Lebanon is a tinderbox that could result in a civil war. You don't know how anyone is going to respond once that occurs. You don't know how the Iranians, the Syrians, the Israelis--it has nothing but a possible recipe for taking our eye off the ball on all the other good things that are potentially happening here. And that's why I think the administration's de-emphasis or lowering our profile some.   Look, here you have the United States of America for the first time in this administration engaging the UN in this prospect and as a partner with France. And I think it's because they realize how destabilizing it could be as all the other pieces we have on the chess board in that region.   SCHIEFFER: All right. Well, Senator Lugar, this whole question of Hezbollah, which we look on as a terrorist organization, Israel looks on it as a threat to their very existence. Yet, it may become a part of the government in Lebanon. Should we be for that? Should we allow that to happen? Can we prevent it from happening?   Sen. LUGAR: Well, we can't prevent it from happening. And I would hesitate to say we should get into a question of whether we allow it. It is there. Five hundred thousand people...   SCHIEFFER: Yes.      Sen. LUGAR: ...came out at a Hezbollah rally just to show that they're still there even as the nationalists in Lebanon were showing the flag the days before and al-Jazeera put that on. So the temperament and the coverage in terms of public diplomacy has changed a whole lot. I think Secretary Rice was careful to say Hezbollah when it has to begin fighting the elections, it has to begin saying how it's put food on the table and jobs for people, may not change its spots all together, but it's a factor that has to be concluded. And it's important because Lebanon is next door to Israel. Syria's next door to Iraq. All of these people are very juxtaposed. And the assassination of Hariri, a horrible event, has opened up possibilities for the world to say, the Saudis and the Egyptians, everybody, `Syria, get out of Lebanon and do so promptly,' the UN in their doing that. That is different in terms of the dynamics. So Lebanon is at least the locus for a lot of this discussion.   SCHIEFFER: All right. I want to thank both of you this morning for really adding to this conversation. Pleasure to have you.      Sen. BIDEN: Thank you.      To visit CBS's Face the Nation website, go to:    CBSNews.com   