
            	NBC's Today Show
             May 13, 2005 
 This is a partial transcript of NBCs TODAY SHOW  from May 13, 2005.   MATT LAUER, NBC ANCHOR: On Close Up this morning: the battle over John Bolton, President Bush's nominee to be the next U.N. ambassador to the United Nations.   On Thursday, the Senate Foreign Relations Committee delivered a blow to President Bush, forwarding Bolton's nomination to the full Senate without a recommendation.   Democratic Senator Joe Biden is the ranking minority member on that committee.      Senator Biden, good morning.      U.S. SENATOR JOSEPH BIDEN (D-DE):  Good morning, Matt.  How are you doing?      LAUER:  I'm fine, thanks.      So sending the nomination of John Bolton to the full Senate without a recommendation; is that a statement about John Bolton or a message to George Bush?   BIDEN: I think it's both, Matt. It's clear that he does not have the confidence of the committee. If that had been a secret ballot, I think you would have seen 11 or 12 votes against John Bolton.   It's clear that this is a very high price that the country's having to pay to reward the conservatives who supported the president in the last election. John Bolton is not qualified to be there, should not be there and I wish the president would reconsider.   LAUER: So what happens now? It goes to the full Senate. The Republicans need 55 votes. They already know they're not going to get George Voinovich's vote, so they now have 54 possible votes left.   Do you see any other defections?      BIDEN: Well, I really mean this: I believe if half a dozen of the moderate and open-minded Republicans there read George Voinovich's speech, I think it's genuinely possible that there may be enough votes on the Republican side to vote against John Bolton.   But I hope before that the president would reconsider and send up someone we could all embrace.      LAUER: You mentioned Voinovich. Let me put together a couple of comments he made during the committee hearing yesterday, and I'll ask you a question on the other side.   (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)      U.S. SENATOR GEORGE VOINOVICH (R-OH): It is my opinion that John Bolton is the poster child of what someone in the diplomatic corps should not be.   That being said, Mr. Chairman, I am not so arrogant to think that I should impose my judgment and perspective of the U.S. position in the world community on the rest of my colleagues.   (END VIDEO CLIP)      LAUER: It's the last part there, Senator. I mean, shouldn't Senator Voinovich want to impose his judgment on the rest of his colleagues? Isn't that what this committee's job is all about?   BIDEN: Well, it is. But let's be fair to Voinovich. When you're in the Republican Party and you've got a Republican president, it is very difficult for you to say, I'm not going to let this go to the floor of the United States Senate and all senators vote.   The message, though -- the recommendation of the Foreign Relations Committee is clear: A majority of senators, including Voinovich, recommend that he should not -- he should not be confirmed.   But look, there are other Republicans, I believe, who would have liked to do what Voinovich did. It takes some political courage to do that with this outfit.   LAUER: If the Democrats go forward and filibuster this nomination in the Senate, don't you risk losing a lot of respect? Don't you risk being seen purely as obstructionists?   BIDEN: Well, we haven't made that decision at all. I mean that sincerely, Matt. I have not had that discussion with my colleagues yet.   There will be serious debate -- several days at a minimum. And unless we get information that we are entitled to as the U.S. Senate from the State Department that was requested weeks ago, that's the kind of thing that could precipitate this kind of institutional showdown.   I hope that doesn't happen. And I hope there are enough, as they say -- as Hamilton said a couple of hundred years ago, I hope there are enough people of rectitude in the Senate that are willing to stand up and say no. This is bad for the United States of America to send John Bolton to the United Nations.   LAUER:  Senator Joe Biden. Senator, thanks for your time this morning.      BIDEN:  Thank you very much, Matt.      To visit NBC's Today Show website, go to: MSNBC.com   