
            	Biden Legislation Urges President to Help Stop Violence in Darfur
             September 13, 2006 
 Washington, DC  Today on the Senate Floor, U.S. Senator Joseph R. Biden, Jr. (D-DE) urged the President to help stop the spreading violence in Darfur, Sudan. Biden advocated passage of his bi-partisan resolution (S. Res 559) calling on President Bush to garner international support for a no-fly zone in Darfur and appoint a Special Envoy for Sudan. Earlier this year, Senator Biden secured unanimous Senate support to create an office of the Special Envoy for Sudan and for a resolution calling for the President to start lobbying NATO to send troops to help stop the continued violence in Darfur.    The situation in Darfur has spiralled out of control. Since the signing of the Darfur Peace Agreement on May 5, violence has increased exponentially. Fifty thousand people have been displaced in the past two months. Two hundred women have been raped over the past five weekstwo hundred more have been violently assaulted, Biden said. We cannot stand by and let further tragedy unfold.    The bi-partisan resolution calls on the international community to impose economic and diplomatic sanctions on the government of Sudan; calls for a special session of the UN Human Rights Council to address Darfur; and seeks the deployment of a UN peacekeeping force to Darfur as soon as possible.    The UN Security Council has finally done the right thing by authorizing a peacekeeping force for Darfur. The international community must make clear to the Sudanese government that it will not allow Khartoum to reject the deployment of that force, said Biden    The government of Sudan has launched an all out military offensive in Darfur. Human rights groups have accused the government of indiscriminate bombing in the region, endangering the lives of civilians. Delivery of humanitarian aid to three million people is at risk because of the violence.    Senator Bidens resolution has over 30 bi-partisan cosponsors and the full text of the resolution is attached.  