
            	SENATE CHAIRMEN SEEK STATE DEPARTMENT REFORMS ON FOREIGN DISASTER AID
             June 14, 2007 
     Press Secretary of State Rice for update on overdue reforms  WASHINGTON, DC - Three Senate chairmen today asked the State Department for an update on its efforts to reform its methods for receiving and managing international aid following domestic disasters. In a joint letter, Senators Joseph R. Biden, Jr., D-Del., Patrick Leahy, D-Vt., and Mary L. Landrieu, D-La., requested that Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice provide a status report addressing ten specific concerns no later than June 28, 2007.   "As you know, the Department of State's responsibility is not limited solely to advancing our nation's interests abroad," the Senators wrote. "Its duty extends to representing the American people to the international community when the interests in question are right here at home."    The Washington Post reported earlier this year that the United States turned down $854 million in offers of foreign assistance from 151 countries following Hurricanes Katrina and Rita and the devastating failure of the federal levee system. According to the April 29 article, only $126.4 was accepted.   "The hurricanes of 2005 united the world in a spirit of goodwill for Americans rebuilding their lives along our Gulf Coast," the Senators wrote. "This spirit should not be laid to waste, and should another disaster tragically befall our nation, we must do better to ensure that such helping hands are not unjustifiably turned away again."   The Bush Administration's own February 2006 report, "The Federal Response to Hurricane Katrina: Lessons Learned," makes nine specific recommendations on how to improve the management of future foreign assistance offers. The White House report had originally set a June 31, 2006, deadline for implementation, but little progress has to date been reported.   At a May 10 hearing of the Senate Appropriations State, Foreign Operations and Related Programs Subcommittee, of which Sen. Landrieu is a member, she asked Secretary Rice about the rejection of this significant assistance and the State Department's efforts to implement the "Lessons Learned" recommendations. But despite a commitment from Secretary Rice to respond by letter, and subsequent e-mails communicating a desire for it to be delivered no later than June 8, no response has yet been received.   "We are two weeks into the 2007 hurricane season, yet it is decidedly unclear whether the federal government is today any better equipped to wisely and effectively manage offers of international assistance," the Senators wrote. "The one certainty is that our nation will eventually confront another disaster, be it natural or manmade."   "We believe a month is more than adequate time to provide the Senate with a response to this essential question," the Senators added.    Sen. Biden is Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and Sen. Leahy is Chairman of the Senate Appropriations State, Foreign Operations and Related Programs Subcommittee. Sen. Landrieu chairs the Disaster Recovery Subcommittee of the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affair Committee.   A full copy of the letter is below.    June 14, 2007   The Honorable Condoleezza Rice Secretary of State U.S. Department of State 2201 C Street, NW Washington, D.C. 20520   Dear Madam Secretary: When Hurricanes Katrina and Rita rolled ashore nearly two years ago, they left behind a devastated region larger than Great Britain. A quarter of a million homes were destroyed, nearly 20,000 businesses were forced to close their doors in Louisiana alone and an area seven times that of Manhattan lay under the floodwaters from the failed federal levees. The magnitude of the catastrophe is unparalleled in our history.   Beginning mere hours after the disasters, more than three-fourths of the nations of the world came forward to offer assistance. Some extended offers of money or in-kind contributions, while others put forth medical supplies, communications equipment or the expertise of rescue personnel and engineers.    In all, more than 150 nations offered helping hands in a gesture of humanity that knows no geographic boundaries or political barriers. As you know, reports have come to light that many offers were not accepted, not followed through on or not properly managed by the Departments of State and Homeland Security. Of nearly $1 billion in tangible assistance offered, only about $126 million was accepted and applied to the disaster relief effort. As a result, hurricane victims and first responders were deprived of resources which could have had tremendous impact on the region's recovery.   We are two weeks into the 2007 hurricane season, yet it is decidedly unclear whether the federal government is today any better equipped to wisely and effectively manage offers of international assistance. The one certainly is that our nation will eventually confront another disaster, be it natural or manmade. The Administration's own review, "The Federal Response to Hurricane Katrina: Lessons Learned," identified several specific recommendations for action by the State Department (alone or in coordination with other agencies), with a deadline of June 1, 2006, for five of them and a call for immediate action on others.    To date, little progress has been reported in addressing these recommendations.   You were specifically asked for an update on this matter in your May 10, 2007, appearance before the Senate Committee on Appropriations Subcommittee on State, Foreign Operations and Related Programs. You said: "I will get back to you with an update on where we are, by letter, in response to your question." Later in your testimony, you added: "I will get back to you with... an answer to your question about the various recommendations."   We believe a month is more than adequate time to provide the Senate with a response to this essential question. In fact, follow up e-mails to your staff indicated that a response was desired by Friday, June 8, 2007. We are disappointed that no response has yet been provided.   As such, we respectfully request that you provide a status report addressing the following questions no later than Thursday, June 28, 2007:   To the extent that the Department of State is designated as the agency responsible, what is the status of implementation of recommendations 89 through 97 of the White House report, "The Federal Response to Hurricane Katrina: Lessons Learned?"   Please also provide the Department's full accounting of all offers of assistance received, their current disposition and, in the case of offers not fully accepted, the Department's rationale for rejecting those offers.   As you know, the Department of State's responsibility is not limited solely to advancing our nation's interests abroad. Its duty extends to representing the American people to the international community when the interests in question are right here at home.    The hurricanes of 2005 united the world in a spirit of goodwill for Americans rebuilding their lives along our Gulf Coast. This spirit should not be laid to waste, and should another disaster tragically befall our nation, we must do better to ensure that such helping hands are not unjustifiably turned away again.    We are committed to working with you and taking whatever steps are necessary to ensure that this vital goal is appropriately met.   Sincerely,   Joseph R. Biden, Jr., Chairman Senate Committee on Foreign Relations   Patrick Leahy, Chairman Subcommittee on State, Foreign Operations and Related Programs Senate Committee on Appropriations   Mary L. Landrieu, Chairman  Subcommittee on Disaster Recovery Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs  