
            	FOX News Fox & Friends
             July 14, 2005 
 This is a partial transcript of FOX News FOX AND FRIENDS from July 14, 2004.      STEVE DOOCY, FOX ANCHOR: With us right now from the Russell Rotunda in D.C. is Delaware Senator Joseph Biden. Good morning to you, Senator.   U.S. SENATOR JOSEPH BIDEN (D-DE):  Good morning.  How are you?      DOOCY:  I'm doing fine.  Thank you very much.      All right, so Rehnquist is in the hospital. He's got thyroid cancer. His future is uncertain although he makes it sound like he'd like to hang on to that job. But we know that Justice O'Connor is going to call it quits.   The president called in some Democrats and some Republicans a couple of days ago; they had brunch. And the Democrats gave him a couple of names.   Is this going, so far, the way you think it should?      BIDEN: Well, yes, I think it is. And I think -- look, the president gets to propose and the Senate gets to dispose, as they say. And I went through this for years when I was chairman of the committee with President Reagan, President Bush and with President Clinton  each had nominees.   And President Reagan submitted a list to me. He didn't say, You pick who you want. He said, These 10 people -- tell me what you think their prospects are. And I think that's a good way for the president to go about it and for the senators to give an honest assessment of what they think would happen, because, look, a lot's at stake in these choices.   DOOCY:  Absolutely.  Do you have a list of people you absolutely would not support?      BIDEN: Well, there are a few people I wouldn't support. But, look, it's really about what's at stake. What's at stake here is whether or not -- how extensive is the right of government to intrude into our personal lives, a la the Schiavo case -- and how significant is -- how much power you're going to give to the very powerful to be able to affect our lives, like whether or not they're going to have our bank records and they can sell them or whether or not you can build a building in the middle of a residential neighborhood.   These are big decisions that relate to parts of the Constitution that have been in controversy and contention for 200 years. It's a big deal.   DOOCY:  Absolutely.      All right, do you think that there will wind up being a filibuster? Because I listen to talk radio on the way home and it sounds like it's a done deal: Your Democratic Party, whoever the president nominates, is going to raise a stink.   BIDEN: No, I don't think so. Look, I think it will be very rare for a filibuster to occur. The fact of the matter is, it's been rare when it's been employed. I do not anticipate there being a filibuster.   On the other hand, if the president came along with somebody who really, you know, said, in effect, We want a Supreme Court who thinks like they thought in Schiavo, if a Supreme Court comes along and says, We're going to let the powerful become even more powerful by giving economic interest greater sway, then I think you'd engage in national debate that God only knows where that would go.   DOOCY: Just about 17 minutes ago, we were watching live from London two minutes of silence as Great Britain and the E.U. countries marked one week after the terror bombings. Most of the bombings on rail, and rail safety something big for the United States.   One great thing that Great Britain has is they've got all of the cameras where they were able to quickly identify the suspects.   BIDEN:  Six thousand of them.  They have 6,000 in their system.      Look, we don't have anything, quite frankly. I've been -- since 9/11, right after that, I introduced a bill for rail security. And the truth is, we have been derelict in the way we've been dealing with it.   We're about to vote today, hopefully, on the start of a serious effort to deal with rail security, passenger rail as well as freight rail.   You know, if, in fact, you put a detonator underneath a chlorine gas tank, a 90-ton tank, and implode it, the Department of the Navy says you kill 100,000 people.   We don't have any cameras, we don't have any of that.  We just have to move.      DOOCY: Speaking of move, what about Karl Rove? Some in your party have said he's got to move out of the White House, sack up his bats and leave. But others say, Look innocent until proven guilty.   BIDEN: Well, he is innocent criminally until proven guilty, but I think he's clearly indicated that he's proven guilty in terms of the standard the president set. The president said anybody who leaked the name of this person, not in a criminal sense, leaked the name, would go.   And Karl Rove, I find a distinction not a difference to say, It's the wife of the ambassador who deals with weapons of mass destruction matters at the CIA. I mean, what do you do, put a bullseye on the back here?   And the truth here -- this argument that he was only trying to keep a reporter from going down the wrong road, he was sending a reporter down the wrong road, because the case was trying to be made that, Look, the only reason this former ambassador came back and said Niger wasn't selling this yellow cake was because his wife sent him there. That was the wrong road.   Karl Rove is a great, great political mind who I think the president's going to have to deal with and the president's credibility really, kind of -- he put it in play.   DOOCY:  All right.  Delaware Senator Joe Biden, we thank you so much for joining us today.      BIDEN:  Thanks an awful lot for having me.  I appreciate it very much.      To visit the Fox News Fox  Friends web site, go to:  FOXNews.com   