
            	Brandywine Valley Scenic Byway to Receive Nearly $90,000
             March 14, 2006 
 WILMINGTON, DE  U.S. Senator Joseph R. Biden, Jr. announced today that the Delaware Department of Transportation will receive $87,600 in federal funds to implement a management plan for the Brandywine Valley Scenic Byway. The plan will be administered by Delaware Greenways, a statewide nonprofit organization which focuses on the preservation and promotion of scenic and historic sites in Delaware.   Delaware Greenways will develop and evaluate options to set up a Scenic Byway Management Entity, a group of dedicated staff who will oversee both the day-to-day operation of the byway as well as plan for future activity. Additionally, they will develop conservation oriented design guidelines for current property owners along the route to change or enhance their properties. With these design guidelines, Delaware Greenways hopes to facilitate communication and educate the public about how to preserve and enhance the byway's intrinsic qualities. There are also plans to publish a visitors guide to promote the byway.   Im so proud to see the Brandywine Valley Scenic Byway flourishing and receiving the recognition it deserves, said Biden. Its taken a lot of work to grow this project from a great idea into a reality, but weve succeeded because this area is genuinely special. As more and more people come to know this stretch of highway and the museums, homes and businesses along the way, I feel like were sharing the best of Delaware with the nation.   The Brandywine Valley Scenic Byway is a 12.25 mile stretch of Routes 52 and 100, beginning in Wilmingtons Rodney Square and ending across the Pennsylvania state line at Longwood Gardens. Attractions along the Byway include the Hotel DuPont, the Delaware Art Museum, Hagley Museum and Library, the Nemours Mansion and Gardens, and Winterthur Museum. The area became Delawares first National Scenic Byway in September 2005, marking the culmination of a six-year effort to officially establish and support the historic, scenic and cultural value of the route.  