
            	ABC's World News Tonight
             December 15, 2005 
 This is a partial transcript of ABC's WORLD NEWS TONIGHT from December 15, 2005.   ELIZABETH VARGAS (ABC NEWS): President Bush called the voting in Iraq today a major milestone. He appeared in the Oval Office with a number of Iraqi expatriates who had been allowed to participate in this election away from home. And yes, they, too, had the ink-stained fingers to prove it.   No matter what the results of the voting here today, the US will have a major role in Iraq. The question is for how long, and in what form? We talked today with two senior Senators who were here to watch the election process, Democrat Joe Biden of Delaware, and Republican Lindsey Graham of South Carolina.   ELIZABETH VARGAS (ABC NEWS)      (Off-camera) You came here. You observed some polling sites in Hillah. What were your impressions?      SENATOR JOE BIDEN: Very well-organized. People voting. People anxious to vote. And I thought it was extremely well-run.      SENATOR LINDSEY GRAHAM: I saw a lot of people who seemed to be excited about the opportunity to pick their own leaders. But we asked enough questions to know that this election is not the end of it for the American presence here. And it's really just beginning for the Iraqi people. But today is a good day. We witnessed a well-run election, people who were very brave to go vote. And every American should appreciate the opportunity to vote because people here do.   ELIZABETH VARGAS (ABC NEWS): In fact, at great risk.      SENATOR LINDSEY GRAHAM: Joe and I started the morning as a Republican and Democrat, with a rocket going off about 300 meters from where we were being housed, so to vote here, you really got to want to vote.   ELIZABETH VARGAS (ABC NEWS): How does what you saw today affect your idea of a timetable? Does it make you more optimistic or less optimistic that Americans will be coming home soon?   SENATOR LINDSEY GRAHAM: Well, I think the one thing I've learned today, we could stay here 100 years and not solve the problem without a political solution for the Iraqi people to chart their own destiny. Less than three, four years ago, people lived under the iron fist of a dictator. The police force has a long way to go before it really is able to protect people and their property.   SENATOR JOE BIDEN: But the bottom line is, we're going to be a significant draw down of American troops in '06, no matter what happens. We're either going to be leaving here with an Iraq having traded a dictator for chaos, or leaving here having traded a dictator for some stability. And that will be done in the next six months.   ELIZABETH VARGAS (ABC NEWS): General Casey told me last night that leaving prematurely would be, in his words, catastrophic.   SENATOR JOE BIDEN: I'm not talking about leaving prematurely. They either are going to get a political solution through their constitution by this June. If they get it, we're gonna be well on their way to be able to withdraw. If they don't get it, in my view, all the king's horses and all the king's men, will not be able to hold Iraq together in the midst of a civil war.   SENATOR LINDSEY GRAHAM: History is going to judge our efforts not by when we left, but by what we left behind. All I ask of the American people is to give the Iraqi people a reasonable opportunity to create a democracy that not only will make Iraq a better place to live, but will make America a safer nation and the world a safer place.   ELIZABETH VARGAS (ABC NEWS) (Off-camera): One thing that struck us today, and perhaps it bodes well for the future, we were talking to a voter today at one of the polling stations, and we asked him if he was Sunni or Shiite. He responded by saying, I am Iraqi.   To visit ABC's World News Tonight website, go to:  ABCNews.com   