
            	Senator Biden Talks with Wolf Blitzer on Iraq
             February 15, 2007 
 Please note that this is a partial transcript BLITZER:     The president, in effect, says you and your fellow Democrats, who oppose his new strategy, are being hypocritical because you all voted to confirm General David Petraeus as the new U.S. military commander in Iraq but now you're tying his hands.     Listen to what the president said today.      (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)  PRESIDENT GEORGE W. BUSH:     This may become the first time in the history of the United States Congress that it has voted to send a new commander into battle and then voted to oppose his plan that is necessary to succeed in that battle.      (END VIDEO CLIP)  BLITZER:     All right, Senator, how do you square that?  BIDEN:     I think that's ridiculous. It's a little bit like saying that because I opposed the war in Iraq that I should be against the military. I mean this is the president of the United States' plan. It's not Petraeus' plan. It's the president of the United States' plan.      I know General Petraeus. He's a fine guy and he's perfectly capable of leading our forces. The policy he's asked to lead on is a mistake.  BLITZER:     But the president says General Petraeus put this plan together.  BIDEN:     Well, let me say -- well, but who's plan is it?      It's the president's plan, Wolf.      Since when does a general set the plans?      And I know General Petraeus well. He was arguing for a lot of stuff earlier the president didn't listen to.      So, you know, I think it's a silly argument. The president -- this is the president's plan. The president's escalating this war and we should be doing the opposite. He's refusing to talk to the international community about it. He's refusing to bring in the international community to make it the world's problem.      He is going about this entirely the wrong way and we're going to try to stop him.  BLITZER:     Now, the issue of funding for the troops is a key issue and it could come up as early as next month. The president, while he's obviously concerned about any symbolic or non-binding resolution opposing his new strategy, he's really going after you and other Democrats, and some Republicans, about the possibility of using money, the power of the purse.      Listen to what he said today.      (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)  BUSH:     Our men and women in uniform are counting on their elected leaders to provide them with the support they need to accomplish their mission.      (END VIDEO CLIP)  BLITZER:     All right, what do you say to the president, who's worried that you're going to -- that you're going to tie their hands and endanger their very lives by cutting off funds?  BIDEN:     We're not going to do that. But he's endangered their lives. He's sending 17,500 people into the middle of Baghdad, 6.2 million people, a lot of them without the right armor, without the right vests.      We ought to get real here. This is a president who sent our troops to war unprepared. He didn't send enough of them to war. Now he's sending them in the middle of a civil war. And as of yesterday, the Washington Post reporting that we're sending not uparmored Humvees in there. We're sending in some of these troops, particularly Guardsmen, without the actual body armor.      It's about time we start putting the focus -- this is the president's badly run war. He's putting people in harm's way, not prepared.  BLITZER:     So are you ready to take the next step, as some of your Democratic colleagues are, and use that issue of emergency funding, the power of the purse, to try to stop this war?  BIDEN:     No, that's not how you're going to stop this war. The way to stop this war is what I'm going to try to do next, along with many others -- I just came from a meeting of my colleagues -- and that is we're going to try to change the authorization for the use of force -- redefine what the president is allowed to use force for in Iran -- in Iraq, excuse me -- and make sure he can't go into Iran in a false war.      And so what we're going to try to do is say Mr. President, the purpose of forces in Iraq now is to train the Iraqis, protect the borders, not to be engaged in the middle of the civil war.      Mr. President, start to listen to the Iraqi Study Group. Start to listen to Biden-Gelb. Start to listen to all of those other plans out there that have one thing in common -- do not escalate, Mr. President. There's a need for a political solution, Mr. President. Get about the business of helping the Iraqis arrive at the political settlement. That's called a federal system. Begin to support it, Mr. President. Call in the world to support it. That's the way we'll end this civil war.  BLITZER:     Yesterday, I interviewed, here in The Situation Room, former Senator Max Cleland of Georgia, who was, as you know, severely wounded in Vietnam. And he appealed to Republicans and Democrats to go ahead and use the power of the purse.      And he said this. I want you to listen to his emotional appeal to you and other members of Congress.      (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)  FORMER SEN. MAX CLELAND:     We will have a surge, all right, a surge in more planes bringing more casualties into Walter Reed and Bethesda at the dark -- in the dark of night. More arms and legs lost, and more bodies coming home with a draped flag over their coffin. That is not the direction we should be going in.      (END VIDEO CLIP)  BLITZER:     All right, what do you say to Senator Cleland, who really wants you to stop this war by cutting off the funds?  BIDEN:     I say he's absolutely right about stopping the war. The most direct and immediate way to be able to do that is to change the authorization that would give the president new limitations on what he can and cannot do. Because there's not a single solitary person out there, including Max Cleland, who says that we're not going to have to leave behind somewhere around 20,000 forces over the horizon to be able to respond to what may be an al Qaeda movement into areas that can't be controlled by the government.      And so this is complicated. But what is not complicated is the president is escalating this war when we should be de-escalating this war. And the president loves this idea of trying to get it down to whether or not we're going to cut off funds for troops in the field.      We have never done that, cut off funds for the troops in the field.      We cut off funds in the Boland Amendment in 1975 after the vast majority of combat troops had already been removed and we, in fact, had made this crystal clear that this was the end.      There's a lot between now and then, Wolf, as you well know. We must end this war by changing the president's authority to conduct it the way he's doing it.  BLITZER:     Do you think Senator Clinton should do what you have done and acknowledge that your vote in favor of the resolution leading up to the war was a mistake?  BIDEN:     That is purely up to Senator Clinton. I have great respect for her. I remember when we both made our statements on the floor of the United States Senate when this war was being voted on. We both squarely said the president was expected to do things he didn't do, and he did the opposite things he said he was going to do.      So I don't want to second-guess Senator Clinton at all. I just know what I think. I believe, in fact, we made a tragic mistake assuming that this president had the competence and competent people around him to abide by what he said he was going to do when we gave him the authority to rally the international community to put greater pressure on Saddam to abide by the U.N. resolution.  BLITZER:     Senator Biden, thanks for coming in.  BIDEN:     Thank you very much, Wolf. 