
            	A Way Forward in Iraq
             June 15, 2007 
  The San Francisco Chronicle A Way Forward in Iraq By Joe Biden and Barbara Boxer Friday, June 15, 2007  When the president first outlined his plan for a surge in U.S. forces in Iraq this past January, he said the purpose was to bring the cycle of violence to an end and give the Iraqi government the breathing space it needs to make progress in other critical areas. It is now the middle of June, and neither has happened. Some 230 American soldiers and Marines were killed in Iraq in April and May -- the deadliest two-month stretch since the war began more than four years ago. With American troops stuck in the middle of a sectarian civil war in Baghdad, the reality is that this trend will likely continue.  Last week, we surpassed the 3,500 death mark, and yet our president continues stubbornly forward with no proposed solution other than to send more of America's sons and daughters to Iraq.  Meanwhile, the Iraqis have not met the key benchmarks for progress that the president announced in January -- laws on oil, de-Baathification and provincial elections. And unfortunately, there is little prospect they will meet them anytime soon.  The mission in Iraq is based on a fatally flawed notion that the Iraqi people -- Sunnis, Shiites and Kurds -- will miraculously put aside their differences and come together to support a strong central government. Over the past several years, it has become increasing clear that the goal of achieving one central, stable government is simply not realistic.  Simply put, Iraq cannot be run from a centralized power structure absent an open-ended foreign occupation or the return of a dictatorship, neither of which is acceptable to the American or Iraqi people.  If we want to hold Iraq together, and not allow it to slide further into the chaos of civil war, then we must change course and stop striving for a military solution to a political problem.  That is why, for more than a year now, we have been proposing a political solution, along with Leslie H. Gelb, president emeritus of the Council on Foreign Relations, to bring stability to Iraq by creating a federal system of government that gives Sunnis, Shiites and Kurds local control over their daily lives. This would not be a U.S. imposition; in fact, Iraq's constitution provides for a decentralized, federal system.  Under our plan, which is supported by Republican Sens. Sam Brownback, Gordon Smith and Kay Bailey Hutchison as well as Democratic Sen. Bill Nelson, the central government would remain responsible for common interests, such as border security and a fair distribution of oil revenues among the Sunnis, Shiites and Kurds.  We would also initiate a major diplomatic surge. It's time to convene an international conference on Iraq that includes the five permanent members of the U.N. Security Council, and all of Iraq's neighbors, to help support a settlement based on federalism.  And perhaps most critical, this plan would allow for the responsible withdrawal of most U.S. forces from Iraq by 2008. Right now, our troops are in the worst possible situation. As Thomas Friedman of the New York Times has said, they are everyone's protector and everyone's target.  It is long past time to dramatically limit the mission of our troops and focus on a much narrower, achievable mission of conducting counterterrorism operations against al Qaeda, training Iraqi security forcesand protecting U.S. personnel.  Instead of escalating the war with no end in sight, it's time to try something new. It's time to start to bring our troops home and to shape what we leave behind so that we do not trade a dictator for chaos.  In 1995, when Bosnia was being torn apart by ethnic cleansing, the United States helped negotiate the Dayton Accords, a plan to keep the nation together by allowing the Serbs, Croats and Muslims autonomy with power-sharing. With the help of an international peacekeeping force, Bosnia has remained relatively stable for the past decade.  That is a model that makes sense for Iraq today. Each day that we fail to pursue a viable political solution to end the carnage in Iraq is another day of heartbreak and sorrow for both Americans and Iraqis. It's time to change course. Federalism has worked before. It's time to give this plan a chance to work in Iraq.  Joe Biden represents Delaware and Barbara Boxer represents California in the U.S. Senate.  