
            	Delaware Delegation Praises Delaware Fire Service & Fire Fighter Safety
             June 15, 2005 
 Wilmington, DE  The Delaware Delegation today praised the fire services in Delaware for their hard work and dedication and offered their support as fire departments around the nation prepare for a stand down.  A stand down is a method used by the military to correct an issue that has been identified as a problem throughout its ranks. The International Association of Fire Chiefs (IAFC) and its partners are urging fire departments to suspend all non-emergency activity on June 21 and instead focus entirely on firefighter safety.  The IAFC and several partnering fire service organizations called for all fire departments in the nation to conduct a stand down for firefighter safety beginning Tuesday, June 21, 2005. As of May 1, there have been 50 line-of-duty firefighter deaths  that is 10 more than at this same time last year. None of those deaths have been Delawareans.  I applaud the organizations that have committed their time and energy to this initiative, said Senator Biden, Chairman of the Congressional Fire Services Caucus. We know what it takes to reduce the untimely deaths of so many firefighters, but the impetus must originate at the local level, within the fire stations with the full support and cooperation of the firefighters and the officers. I am urging all one million first responders to participate in this event.  Delawares firefighters put their lives in jeopardy every day in an effort to keep our families safe, and I am incredibly proud of them, said Senator Tom Carper, who is a senior member of the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, the Senate panel with jurisdiction over the fire service and our nation's homeland security efforts. This stand down will serve as a reminder to us all about the importance of firefighter safety.  Our firefighters face danger day in and day out to protect the communities they serve. In Congress we constantly work to ensure our firefighters have the proper equipment to respond to and handle fires more safely and efficiently, and this stand down only serves to reinforce to us, the important job we can do as legislators, and to the firefighters, the need to focus on safety as a number one concern, said Congressman Mike Castle, a member of the Congressional Fire Caucus.  
 Wilmington, DE  The Delaware Delegation today praised the fire services in Delaware for their hard work and dedication and offered their support as fire departments around the nation prepare for a stand down.   A stand down is a method used by the military to correct an issue that has been identified as a problem throughout its ranks. The International Association of Fire Chiefs (IAFC) and its partners are urging fire departments to suspend all non-emergency activity on June 21 and instead focus entirely on firefighter safety.   The IAFC and several partnering fire service organizations called for all fire departments in the nation to conduct a stand down for firefighter safety beginning Tuesday, June 21, 2005. As of May 1, there have been 50 line-of-duty firefighter deaths  that is 10 more than at this same time last year. None of those deaths have been Delawareans.   I applaud the organizations that have committed their time and energy to this initiative, said Senator Biden, Chairman of the Congressional Fire Services Caucus. We know what it takes to reduce the untimely deaths of so many firefighters, but the impetus must originate at the local level, within the fire stations with the full support and cooperation of the firefighters and the officers. I am urging all one million first responders to participate in this event.   Delawares firefighters put their lives in jeopardy every day in an effort to keep our families safe, and I am incredibly proud of them, said Senator Tom Carper, who is a senior member of the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, the Senate panel with jurisdiction over the fire service and our nation's homeland security efforts. This stand down will serve as a reminder to us all about the importance of firefighter safety.   Our firefighters face danger day in and day out to protect the communities they serve. In Congress we constantly work to ensure our firefighters have the proper equipment to respond to and handle fires more safely and efficiently, and this stand down only serves to reinforce to us, the important job we can do as legislators, and to the firefighters, the need to focus on safety as a number one concern, said Congressman Mike Castle, a member of the Congressional Fire Caucus.    