
            	Biden Lauds Direct Relations with Libya, Stresses Outstanding Financial Obligations to Pan Am 103 Families and Continued Focus on Human Rights
             May 15, 2006 
 WASHINGTON, DC  Today, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice announced the President's decision to establish full diplomatic relations with Libya, remove Libya from the list of designated state sponsors of terrorism, and omit Libya from the annual certification of countries not fully cooperating with US anti-terrorism efforts. Libya was given a very specific roadmap by successive US Administrations stating what it would need to do in order rejoin the international community and restore relations with the United States. By giving up on its weapons of mass destruction capabilities, taking responsibility for bombing Pan Am 103, and ending its support for terrorism, Libya has fulfilled those conditions. Today, Senator Biden issued the following statement:   I support the Presidents decision. This approach  a clear roadmap with consequences and incentives, close cooperation with our allies, broad international support, and a willingness to engage in direct talks  is one the Administration would be wise to follow on other tough challenges such as Iran's nuclear program.   However, my profound misgivings about the fundamental nature of the Libyan regime remain. Libya was responsible for the deaths of 189 innocent Americans in the bombing of Pan Am 103 in 1988 and two American service members in the bombing of the La Belle discotheque in Germany in 1986. Now that Libya has been removed from the state sponsors of terrorism list I expect it to make immediate payment of all of its outstanding financial obligations to the families of the victims of the Pan Am 103. I urge the Bush administration to press ahead for a similar closure to the La Belle bombing.   I also have deep concerns about Libyas domestic human rights record. Though the release of more than a hundred political prisoners in March was encouraging, the Libyan dissident Fathi Eljahmi remains in prison facing trial for speaking out on behalf of democratic rights and meeting with an American diplomat. Six Bulgarian nurses and a Palestinian doctor remain in prison on charges, rejected by the State Department and international human rights organization, that they infected Libyan children with the HIV virus.   I urge the Bush Administration to insist on the immediate release of Fathi Eljahmi and others who have been unjustly imprisoned in Libya. A full and productive relationship with Libya can only be developed if the Libyan government is prepared to respect the fundamental human rights of its citizens.  