
            	Delaware to Receive More than $31 Million for Military Construction Projects
             November 15, 2006 
 Washington, DC -- U.S. Senators Joe Biden (D-DE) and Tom Carper (D-DE) announced today that the U.S. Senate approved $31.4 million worth of new construction projects for Delaware military units. The funding is part of the fiscal year 2007 Military Construction- Veterans Affairs Appropriations bill.    In preparation for the arrival of C-17s at Dover Air Force Base starting next summer, the Senate approved five projects worth $30.4 million: $13.4 million for C-17 hangars; $7.4 million for a C-17 aircrew life support facility; $3 million for a C-17 engine storage facility; $2.6 million for a C-17 composite shop, and $4 million for a new precision measurement equipment laboratory, which supports C-5s, C-17s, and C-130s in Delaware, Maryland, Pennsylvania, Massachusetts, and Spain.    In addition, the Senate provided $1 million for a new vehicle storage facility at the Smyrna Army National Guard Readiness Center. The facility will protect the 31st Civil Support Teams vehicles. These vehicles contain life support systems and other sensitive equipment that must be in a climate controlled environment when not in use.    Dover Air Force Base is integral to our nations defense, Sen. Biden said. This investment in the bases infrastructure will ensure its ready for its newest arrival  the C-17s. Especially at a time when our men and women in uniform are engaged in combat around the globe, equipping them for victory has never been more important, and this funding goes a long way toward doing just that.    Were asking more and more of our armed forces each and every day, said Senator Carper. Our top priority must be to provide them with the tools they will need to get the job done  top-rate facilities that allow for the best work environment. Enhancing Dover's storage and hangar capacity will help Dover prepare for the arrival of the C-17s and solidify its status as the East Coast's premiere airlift base.    The differences between the Senate and House versions of the bill must now be reconciled and a compromise bill passed by both chambers before it is sent to the President for his signature into law.   