
            	BIDEN Hosts Delaware Elementary Students' Art for America Recycles Day
             November 15, 2007 
 Joint project with Delaware Department of Education displays nearly 60 works of art made from recyclable materials   Washington, DC - U.S. Senator Joe Biden (D-DE), in conjunction with Delaware Department of Education (DOE) and the Art Educators of Delaware, is hosting artwork from nearly 60 Delaware students in the rotunda of the Russell Senate Building in Washington, D.C. this week. The art is from students up and down the state and was made primarily from recyclable materials in celebration of America Recycles Day, which is today, November 15, 2007.   Senator Biden, DOE, and the Art Educators of Delaware reached out to students throughout the state, asking them to submit art for display in the Russell Rotunda. The result is a beautiful exhibit of Delaware art for every visitor to enjoy, while making everyone more conscious of our impact on the environment.    "The art that Delaware's students contributed has been a welcome addition to Washington this week. Countless visitors, staff, and even other Senators have seen the finest of our state's creative future," Sen. Biden said. "We talk about taking better care of our environment, but the message is much stronger when it comes from those whom our actions affect most: our children. Delaware's schools are encouraging both the creative arts and environmental awareness, and I could not be more pleased that we've had a national audience this week."   Valerie A. Woodruff, Delaware Secretary of Education, was excited her department could help Delaware's students play a prominent role in America Recycles Day: "Children's creativity is limited only by their imagination.  They see beauty out of other people's throwaways." Added Woodruff, "I am pleased that the artistic imaginations of our students are being showcased in the Russell Rotunda where the nation can view their stunning works of art."    The 57 pieces of artwork have been displayed in the Russell Senate Building Rotunda in Washington, D.C. since Tuesday, November 13, and will continue to be shown through Friday, November 16. 