
            	Iraqi Leaders Support Biden Federalism Plan for Iraq
             October 15, 2007 
  IRAQI LEADERS SUPPORT BIDEN FEDERALISM PLAN FOR IRAQ    In May of 2006, Sen. Biden, along with President Emeritus of the Council on Foreign Relations Leslie H. Gelb, announced a detailed plan for promoting a political settlement in Iraq that would allow our troops to leave, without leaving chaos behind.  The plan called for a decentralized, federal system in Iraq, which would give its people local control over the fabric of their daily lives, including police, jobs, education and government services.  A limited central government would be responsible for protecting Iraq's borders and distributing its oil revenues.  Sen. Biden introduced an amendment to the Defense Authorization Bill based on his federalism plan for Iraq.  The amendment said it should be U.S. policy to support a political settlement in Iraq based upon the principles of federalism.  The 75-23 overwhelmingly bi-partisan vote in favor, including 26 Republicans, marked the first time this year that the Senate passed an Iraq-related policy measure.  Many of Iraqi's leaders have expressed public and private support for the Plan.  A summary of the public support is below:   Iraq's President Jalal Talabani: "I agree with Senator Biden. And I have full respect of him. I know him as a good friend - a great friend of the Iraqi people and Kurdish people. And I think the resolution passed by the Senate is a very good one. And I protected it in my interview with Al Hurra. I say that those who are criticizing it, they didn't read it carefully, because if they read it, you see in every article that it is insisting on the unity of Iraq, of the security of Iraq, of prosperity of Iraq, of national reconciliation and asking our neighbors not to interfere in internal affairs of Iraq. And even when talking about other regions, it says it must be according to the population and the elected leaders of the country.' [CNN Late Edition, 10/7/07]   Iraq's Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki: "They said they welcomed federalism. If federalism is what they really meant, why not? Federalism, after all, is stipulated in the Constitution. We, too, talked about federalism as this is a constitutional issue."[al-Iraqiyah Television, 10/2/07] Prominent Leader in the Supreme Iraqi Islamic Council Ammar al-Hakim: "Addressing hundreds of supporters at the party's Baghdad headquarters, al-Hakim called on Iraqis to press ahead with the creation of self-rule regions, but cautioned that the country's unity must be safeguarded. Federalism is one way to accomplish this goal,' he said. He said Baghdad's monopoly of power over decision-making and national wealth had turned the central government into a tyrannical and dominating' body. I call on the sons of our nation to create their (self-rule) regions,' al-Hakim said." [AP, 10/14/07]  Former Iraq Defense Minister Ali Allawi: "I think the solution has to be to really face the fact that the invasion, occupation of the country has led to really enormous consequences, not only inside the Iraq but in the region. Unless you administer and control the effects of the invasion, you're unlikely to have much peace. And to do that I think you have to take into account that certain irreversible changes have taken place, especially, for example, the empowerment of the Shiite community, the empowerment of the Kurds, and the effects of that on the various countries of the Middle East.   JON STEWART: So you see sort of a central government, kind of existing to mediate between Kurds, Shi'a, and Sunni, but then they also have autonomy of their own?   Allawi: I think so. In the long term, if you want to have a nation state, these components have to be brought together again. You have to reweave the structures of the country and society. And a central government that is based on a kind of federal arrangement is possibly the best outcome." [The Daily Show with Jon Stewart, 4/18/07]   Muwaffaq al-Rubaie, National Security Advisor of Iraq:  "I don't think Senator Biden has said that Iraq should be divided into three sections. What I think - and I can't agree more with Senator Biden and his article, and I think he is a very well-informed person. What we are talking here - and he's talking about Iraqi constitution. The constitution of Iraq has said very clearly that you can form provinces, regions, federal - this is a democratic federal system, and any two or three or nine or 10 provinces can get together and form a region, and form a federal unit. And this is exactly what Joseph Biden is saying, or I believe when I read his article I think Biden's idea is a good idea, with some modification because it's very compatible with our permanent constitution, which was ratified on the 15th of October last year. [CNN Late Edition, 5/7/06]  