
            	Senator Biden on Hardball with Chris Matthews
             August 16, 2006 
 MATTHEWS: Let`s go to Senator Joe Biden of Delaware who is up in Iowa. Senator Biden, it looks like you`re on the presidential trail again.   SEN. JOE BIDEN (D), DELAWARE: I am. I am.      MATTHEWS: So you`re running for president in 2008?      BIDEN: I am, I am.      MATTHEWS: OK. Let me ask you -- you haven`t been on the show in a while. We miss you and a lot of terrible things have happened. We`ve had a Mideast war that seems to be slowing down a bit. We`ve got the horrible possibility of being attacked in the air over the Atlantic that`s been broken up, and the situation in Iraq has turned to hell. A hundred people a day dying there now in this apparent civil war.   Put it all together for us.      BIDEN: Well, bottom line is, Chris, what`s happened is that the world has figured and the bad guys have figured out that we are absolutely tied down and tethered to Iraq. And Iraq is going to hell in a hand basket.   I got back from my seventh trip over the Fourth of July, speaking to all the commanders there. They are straightforward. They`ve been saying it all along. Our flag officers said look, it`s not the insurgency. It is a civil war, stupid. It`s a civil war.   We have no plan, Chris. I know people criticize the plan that I put out, which is the only plan out there about how to separate these parties, how to give more local autonomy, how to give the Sunnis a piece of the action in terms of the oil, and how to work out a deal with the major powers to keep the other nations out.   Absent something like that, Chris, unless you give these groups breathing room, nothing else is going to happen. It`s going to be a civil war. And all the king`s horses and all the king`s men aren`t going to stop it.   In the meantime, you look at Iran. I believe that`s part of the reason why Iran gave Hezbollah the green light. They have no fear of us moving against them. It has caused real chaos in the region and you know - - I remember being on your show, Chris, after I came back from being one of the only guys in the country in Lebanon when they had their elections.   I went all up and down the country, met with everyone from Jumblatt to Annan and all those guys. One thing they are all united on is their concern about Hezbollah. You pull out the Syrians and what they said and what I came back and said to the administration, hey, there`s a vacuum there, Hezbollah is going to fill it.   The deal was you are going to bring the Lebanese army down there. You`ve got to train them and pay them. You`ve got to get them down there. We`re great at projecting force, but we sure aren`t good at follow-up.   And the bottom line of all of this is that there is real chaos and confusion based upon the realization that we have no policy. We think elections presented -- cause a democracy to come into place.   Look at the democratic proposals in this administration. Force elections in the West Bank and you get Hamas. Have elections in Lebanon and you get Hezbollah. Have elections up in Iraq and you`ve got a Shia- based state. I mean, they have no plan, Chris. There is no policy.   MATTHEWS: World War II, the United States part of it, from Pearl Harbor to Hiroshima, was 45 months. We`re 41 months into this war. Within four months, our war in Iraq will be as long as our role in World War II. Senator, you`re running for president or thinking seriously about it. You`re on the road to that. How do we get out of that country?   BIDEN: We get out of the country -- first of all, we`re going to get out of the country one way or another. The question is, do we get out having traded a dictator for chaos, a civil war and a regional war, or do we get out of the country leaving behind a relatively fragile republic that is a federated republic where all the three major constituencies -- Shias, Sunni and the Sunni Kurds -- all believe there is better reason to stay in the deal than get out of the deal?   We need a Bosnia-type solution here. We need a solution where you give the parties breathing room, where you, in fact, mandate through our quiet diplomacy, whispering in ear -- in Maliki`s ear, saying give the Sunnis a piece of the action. Make an offer they can`t refuse, 20 percent of the oil revenues.   And ask our military to begin to put in place a plan how by the end of 2006 we`re out of there -- I mean, 2007, we`re out of there, because ironically, there`s not enough troops there to make a difference. The troops that are there are part of the problem but there`s no plan, Chris. They`re just saying stay the course.   MATTHEWS: Right, but you`re talking about -- well, I don`t want to knock people because the region, but asking the Shia to give the Sunnis a piece of the action, a piece of the land, is like asking the Arabs to give the Jews a piece of the action.   BIDEN: Well, by the way, it`s close ...      MATTHEWS: And that`s why people don`t make divisional decisions. They want it all.      BIDEN: Guess what? They do want it all and if they want it all, you`re on your own, Jack. Look, when you remember -- you were away or you were on another assignment and one of your stand-ins had me on when the president was over -- made a surprise trip to talk to Maliki.   And there -- the president said he -- they put up on a screen our president whispering into his president`s ear and they said what do you think of that? I said, I hope he was whispering in his ear, Hey, Jack, let`s get something straight here. You`ve got to get Sunni buy-in. If you don`t, you`re on your own.   MATTHEWS: Well, you and the president may be in the same world here.      BIDEN: We have got to start playing ...      (CROSSTALK      MATTHEWS: Yes, I know. And the president is beginning to talk like that. You don`t get it directly from the president, Senator, but you do read these accounts of the meetings he`s had. For example, he apparently was shocked to know that the Shia majority -- which you know is allied with Hezbollah -- is rooting for Hezbollah. He seemed to be surprised that they weren`t on our side.   BIDEN: Surprise, surprise. Why? Why?      I mean, look. Chris, this is too long in the tooth here. Look, we`ve got to stop making excuses for this outfit. This is six years down the road. Who would not have understood that?   I came back after a meeting with Maliki in his office, and I sat with him. This is less than a month ago. And I came back and I reported that I believed there was no possibility this guy without a real heavy push was about to make any concessions that would bring the Sunnis into the deal, and I thought there was no possibility he would take on the Shia coalition to disarm the militia.   Now, you tell me how can there possibly be -- how can there possibly be a settlement in that country, a political settlement, without disarming and/or integrated the militia? How does that happen? Not possible.   So what`s the plan? And then the president, if it`s true -- I didn`t know that -- he acts surprised that they`re rooting for Hezbollah? Why? How could that be?   MATTHEWS: Well, maybe because he`s been advised now ...      BIDEN: How could that be?      MATTHEWS: ...for six years by people who thought the main goal of our policy in Iraq was to de-Ba`athicize the country, to keep -- to break up the army, to punish the former people with Saddam Hussein, that it was mainly an ideological war and we were the good guys and the Shia were on our side. Maybe it sounds like malarkey now, but it still looks like policy here to me.   Let me ask you, when people go to vote this November -- it`s only a couple of months off -- if they vote Republican for senator or for anything really, U.S. Congress, governor, they`re really voting for stay-the-course. That`s fair enough.   What are they voting for if they vote Democrat? In Iraq?      BIDEN: They`re voting for a change and take a look at Iraq.      MATTHEWS: A change?      BIDEN: You know, the piece that we put together, that Carl Levin and I and others put together, and Jack Reed, et cetera, what did it do? It said three things. It said number one, you`ve got to get a Sunni buy-in. You`ve got to make sure that you deal with the militia. And if you don`t, there`s no hope here.   And there has to be a way that the military has time to figure out how we withdraw by the end of the year, because we`re coming -- the end of `07. And so that`s what they`re voting for. They`re voting for a plan. Hopefully, if that happens, the president will get the message. How can he not understand?   MATTHEWS: OK, basically you`re offering -- basically, a division, a separation, the kind of partition that we`ve used, as European and American powers, for years to end the conflict.   Let me ask you about the conflict up in Connecticut. It`s very important, politically, because it looks to me like having watched him last night, Alan Schlesinger, the Republican candidate, is not going to break single digits. He`s got gambling debts he`s had to pay off, he`s been banned from casinos up there, he`s got problems.   He had to use a phony name to get a wampum card at one of the casinos. I don`t think he looks like a winner right now, in the political game -- if I can use a metaphor, there. So it`s going to come down to Lieberman or Lamont; where do you stand?   BIDEN: Well, I stand for the Democratic candidate. Joe is my good friend. I told Joe when I went up there campaigning for them, I want to lead the Democratic Party. I`ve got to abide by the Democratic Party`s ruling.   But look, here`s my worry: I don`t know enough to know, but I wouldn`t bet my daughter`s graduate school tuition on the fact that the Republicans don`t find a substitute for the Republican candidate, as we did in New Jersey.   MATTHEWS: Well, they probably can`t find a weaker one if they look for a month!      Let me ask you this: Will you discourage big people who might be wanting to invest in the Lieberman campaign? Will you take any active role in trying to get the Democrat elected up there, the Democratic candidate?   BIDEN: Yes, but I`m not going to take an active role by being against Joe. I`m not going to take an active role by discouraging any of Joe`s friends. I`m going to take an active role in trying to elect the Democrat.   MATTHEWS: Who`s going to win?      BIDEN: But you know, I said that ...      MATTHEWS: Who`s going to win?      BIDEN: You know, honest to god, I don`t know, Chris. I mean, right now if you looked at the polls before this happened, Joe wins. But you know, Lamont`s turning out to be -- if you noticed, Lamont`s not calling for American troops to withdraw immediately.   MATTHEWS: Yes. I`m just wondering if he can ...      BIDEN: You know what I mean?      MATTHEWS: ...get the Democrats behind him. It`s unsure to me. I think the best man should win at this point. I`d like them both to run their best campaigns, myself -- I don`t have to take sides. But I`ll tell you one thing.   BIDEN: By the way ...      MATTHEWS: I think it`s the best politician who wins that thing right now. Either guy can win.      BIDEN: I absolutely agree with you.      MATTHEWS: Either guy can win. Thank you.      BIDEN: I absolutely agree.      MATTHEWS: And the same with the presidential campaign. Senator Joe Biden, candidate for president. It`s great to have you on, as always. Thank you, sir.   BIDEN: Thank you.   