
            	Floor Statement: Commemorating the 10th Anniversary of The National Domestic Violence Hotline
             February 16, 2006 
 Mr. BIDEN. Mr. President, I rise today with my colleagues Senators Cornyn, Hutchison, Hatch, Specter, Leahy and Kennedy to submit a Resolution commemorating the 10th anniversary of a critical American resource -- the National Domestic Violence Hotline. Operating 24 hours a day, 365 days every year, in more than 140 different languages, with a TTY line available for the deaf, the Hotline offers confidential and anonymous help for victims of domestic violence, their families and friends. Located in Austin, TX, the National Domestic Violence Hotline was created in the Violence Against Women Act of 1994. As I began to draft that Act over 15 years ago, I held many Congressional hearings and listened to hours of testimony from experts about how to craft an effective, coordinated community response to battering. One of the realities that was raised over and over in those hearings was how very difficult it was, and still is, for a battered woman to admit the abuse. It was, and still is, very difficult for a battered woman to report the abuse to the police or local prosecutor. In the Violence Against Women Act we created a safe haven--a place to talk about the abuse that offered lots of solutions and total anonymity, the National Domestic Violence Hotline.   On February 21, 1996, the Hotline answered its first call, and since then has received over 1.5 million calls. Today, Hotline advocates answer as many as 600 calls per day and an average of 16,500 calls per month from women, men and children across the nation.   These are real lives that have been dramatically changed by their first call to the National Domestic Violence Hotline. Over 60 percent of the Hotline callers report that this is their very first attempt to deal with the abuse--they hadn't told a friend yet, or reported it to the police.   Each day Hotline advocates listen and respond to heart-wrenching pleas for help and information, and each day they offer their callers hope and help. I am pleased that the Senate can recognize their hard work with today's Senate Resolution commemorating its 10th anniversary. It is but a small token of this body's gratitude for the National Domestic Violence Hotline.  