
            	Biden-Lugar Initiative Calls for American Leadership on Climate Change
             January 16, 2007 
 WASHINGTON, DC -- In a bipartisan effort to protect our global climate, the chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, U.S. Senator Joe Biden (D?DE), today joined with Senator Richard Lugar (R?IN), the Committees ranking member, in introducing a Senate Resolution calling for the United States to return to international negotiations on climate change.   The Biden-Lugar Resolution states that the evidence of the human role in global warming is clear, that the environmental, economic, and security effects will be costly, and that the response must be international. The resolution recognizes that there are real economic benefits both from reducing the waste and inefficiencies inherent in greenhouse gas emissions and from the markets for new, climate-friendly technologies. The Resolution calls for the United States to resume its role as leader in the international effort to address this global threat.   The climate has changed. It has changed outside, where the year just concluded was the warmest on record in the United States. And the climate has changed in halls of the Senate, where the causes and consequences of global warming  and how we should respond  will be a major concern of this new Congress, said Senator Biden.   It is critical that the international dialogue on climate change and American participation in those discussions move beyond the disputes over the Kyoto Protocols, Senator Lugar said. We need to include India, China and other developing nations in a dynamic dialogue, and recognize that a one-size-fits-all approach is not workable.   The resolution calls for United States participation in negotiations under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, signed by the first President Bush, to protect the economic and security interests of the United States, and to commit all nations  developed and developing  that are major emitters of greenhouse gases to achieve significant long-term reductions in those emissions. The resolution also calls for a bipartisan Senate observer group to monitor these talks and ensure that our negotiators bring back agreements that all Americans can support.   The science is clear, and the physical consequences of global warming are obvious in shrinking polar ice caps, retreating glaciers, stronger storms, and changing rainfall patterns. We can expect rising sea levels, spreading diseases, and unpredictable, abrupt climate shifts, said Senator Biden. I sincerely hope the President will give the issue of climate change the attention it deserves in the State of the Union address, added Sen. Biden.  