
            	Floor Statement: The Nomination of Judge Thomas Griffith
             June 16, 2005 
 Mr. BIDEN: Mr. President, I rise today to discuss the nomination of Thomas Griffith to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia. I intend to vote for Mr. Griffith's nomination today. When the Judiciary Committee reported Mr. Griffith's nomination to the floor on April 14, I opposed his nomination because of my concern over the nexus between his public views on title IX and his views on stare decisis. More specifically, I expressed concern that Mr. Griffith had not clearly indicated that he would respect 27 years of the accepted legal interpretation espoused by successive administrations and other Federal appellate courts regarding the substantial proportionality test of title IX. In my view, failure to accept this consensus as applicable precedent would mark a monumental, and unacceptable, shift in the ability to enforce title IX.   When I voted against Mr. Griffith in the Judiciary Committee, however, I stated that I would reconsider my vote on the floor if I received assurances that he would respect the unanimous consensus of the Federal appellate courts and prior and current administration interpretations on title IX. When I was unable to reach Mr. Griffith, I had my staff director speak to him to ask a series of followup questions. Mr. Griffith assured my staff that he would consider the consensus views of the appellate courts and administration views as applicable precedent with respect to any challenge to title IX he might face as a sitting judge on the DC Circuit. He also reiterated the point, made in his earlier written responses, that he would recuse himself in any case where the DC Circuit's recusal rules required it. Mr. Griffith also noted that he has five daughters who are all active in sports and who had been direct beneficiaries of title IX. He stated that, having seen first-hand the tangible effects of increased participation for women in sports, he would never do anything to curtail the continued success of title IX.   By all accounts, Mr. Griffith is an honorable man and I take him at his word. It is my hope and expectation that he will apply the consensus precedent on title IX matters should he consider them on the bench. I am fortified in my views by the strong endorsement of Mr. Griffith's nomination by three individuals for whom I have great respect  Judge Abner Mikva, Gregory Craig, and Lanny Breuer. I served in Congress with Judge Mikva, helped shepherd his nomination to the Federal bench, and worked closely with him when he was White Counsel and I was chairman, then ranking member, of the Judiciary Committee. I have worked with all three of these individuals, and their personal assurances to me that Mr. Griffith is both a man of his word and possessed of the requisite judgment and temperament to sit on the Federal bench is a significant factor in my decision to support his nomination. Finally, I am hopeful that Mr. Griffith will also remain true to his word for the sake of his five daughters who have been direct beneficiaries of title IX.     For these reasons, I have decided to support Mr. Griffith's nomination on the floor.      