
            	Delaware Delegation Announces Over $600,000 for the Wilmington Train Station
             June 16, 2005 
 WILMINGTON, D.E. -- U.S. Senators Tom Carper and Joe Biden and Congressman Mike Castle today announced $640,000 in funding they secured through the U.S. Department of Transportation to be applied towards the engineering, design, and environmental work associated with the renovations, improvements, and upgrades at the Wilmington Train Station, located in downtown Wilmington.   I am pleased we were able to help secure this funding to upgrade the Wilmington Train Station, said Senator Biden. This money will improve the stations comfort, convenience and services and make it a more accessible, welcoming place.   Located in downtown Wilmington, the train station serves as an important hub along the Northeast Corridor of the Amtrak line. As one who rides the train almost every day, I know the importance of a modern, convenient train station and its role in the continued economic development in our state. I am pleased that the U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded this money and know that it will go a long way in updating and beautifying the station, said Senator Tom Carper.   The Wilmington Train Station has been the landmark of downtown Wilmington for over a century now. And as one who spends much time there, traveling almost daily aboard Amtrak trains, I have grown to appreciate the classic elements of the original design. However, as any hurried traveler, I welcome the news of this funding through the U.S. Department of Transit and know that the improvements to be made will serve to streamline the operations and accessibility of the vital station while maintaining the beauty of the surrounds, said Congressman Mike Castle.   The Delaware Department of Transportation (DelDOT) will use the funding toward major renovations to passenger amenities and will improve access for persons with disabilities. The project will update the facility from the 1893 layout to improve functionality and be complementary with surrounding commercial development.   The project consists of the following major improvements:      	Installation of a fully accessible entrance on the Front Street side of the station to aid those with disabilities;      	Replacement of windscreens on the low-level platforms;      	Removal of non historic canopies on the low-level platforms;      	Installation of electronic signs on the commuter low-level platform on Track 1;      	Installation of new display with real time transit information;      	Renovation of public restrooms;      	Removal of the glass curtain walls at the two retail outlets on the concourse level;      	Installation of a new elevator to the high level platform; and      	Installation of a mini-high ramp on the commuter low-level platform on Track 1  