
            	Floor Statement: Securing Amtrak's Financial Future
             March 16, 2005 
 Mr. BIDEN: Mr. President, I am pleased to join Senator Byrd and my other colleagues to offer this amendment, to repair a major flaw in the budget resolution. I was shocked when the President sent his budget here earlier this year, without a dime for intercity passenger rail. Not a dime. Not one red cent. How could they possibly refuse to fund our passenger rail system, that carries 25 million passengers a year? What are they thinking? Where will those 25 million travelers go? Back onto our overcrowded highways? Should they take a place in the security lines in our airports? We know what they are thinking, Mr. President. We have been told, in many public statements by the administration, that they intend to blackmail us in the Congress into accepting a plan to breakup Amtrak, in exchange for the funds the system needs to keep running. Instead of fixing that problem, this resolution repeats the blackmail threat: breakup the system, or no funds. No passenger rail system in the world operates without support. Almost no passenger rails system in the world operates on the low level of support inflicted on Amtrak over the years. We have starved the system of one of its most basic needs: capital. From the day we created it over 30 years ago, Amtrak has been put in the impossible position of trying to increase its ridership, to increase its own revenues, while we have refused to provide it with the resources needed to do the job. Railroading is a classic capital-intensive industry. The huge costs for the right of way itself, which Amtrak owns all along the Northeast corridor, the costs of maintaining the locomotives and passenger cars--those are the costs that virtually every other advanced industrial economy in the world undertakes today. They don't do it out of nostalgia for the golden age of rail. They don't do it because they lack other kinds of transportation. They do it because modern economies need a full mix of transportation options, a balanced system. They do it because it takes pressure off highways and airports, because passenger rail is clean and safe. Here on the Senate floor, we are told: Don't worry, we aren't serious. We didn't mean it when we refused to put a dime in this budget for passenger rail. But the administration put it differently in its budget. They actually propose zeroing out Amtrak with the goal of causing a bankruptcy, which, and I quote, would likely lead to the elimination of inefficient operations and reorganization of the railroad through bankrupcty proceedures. That is their idea of reform. That is their idea of how to make transportation policy: Let a bankruptcy judge figure it out. They are creating a crisis, and using the threat of bankruptcy to force changes on the system. What is their plan? What do they propose? First, they want to push more costs off onto the States. That is a theme we are seeing throughout the budget. It looks like saving money, but it simply shifts costs. Ask our mayors, ask our Governors what they think of the Federal Government shifting costs onto them. That is not a plan that will work. They also want to break Amtrak up into capital and operating units. They tried something like that in Great Britain, and they regret it. Then they want to let other companies come in and bid to run operations on the most profitable lines. That is a formula for breaking up the system, encouraging cherry-picking, tearing up contracts with the unions, and leaving passengers stranded. That is not reforming a national passenger rail system; that is breaking up the system we have. This is no way to accomplish reform. Right now Amtrak has a growing ridership, for good reasons. With security concerns and hassles, with the cost-cutting and crowding, air travel is less attractive. Our highways are already congested. Amtrak has earned that new ridership, with its new fleet of high-speed Acela trains, with a commitment to maintaining and upgrading equipment. A lot of that work goes on in my State of Delaware, at our shops at Wilmington and at Bear. But by starving the system of the capital it needs, we have put it into crisis. Without more investment, it cannot attract riders. Without more passengers, it cannot earn more money. The way out of the impasse is to make the investment in the passenger rail system our nation needs. Amtrak has a 5-year capital plan that could attract more passengers, and earn them more operating revenues, but they have not received the funding they need to make that plan work. Starved of the capital they need to succeed, then blamed for not making money, now Amtrak is facing blackmail and bankruptcy under this budget. Senator Byrd, who is our leader on this amendment, knows the history of Amtrak's funding problems. His amendment is not extravagant; in fact, it is less than we should be giving Amtrak as it struggles to improve. I am sure Senator Byrd feels the same way. But the $1.4 billion this amendment would provide would remove the threat of bankruptcy and keep the system running. It is the only responsible anwer to an irresponsible budget. While I am speaking Mr. President, there is one other aspect of passenger rail I want to mention: security. In the aftermath of the tragic events of September 11, over 3 years ago, I came to the floor with an amendment to the $15 billion airline bailout and security spending bill. That amendment would have begun the process of raising security on our rails, just as we recognized the need to increase security on our airlines. In deference to the emergency in the airline industry, I withdrew that amendment. In the years since, I have tried, with the help of Senators McCain, Hollings, Carper, Schumer, Clinton and others, to move legislation to upgrade rail security. Over three years later, in the face of explicit warnings and evidence that terrorists are targetting passenger rail here in our country, a year after the tragic bombings in Madrid, we have done virtually nothing about Amtrak's security needs. It should be a scandal that this Congress and this administration have not even authorized, much less spent a dime for, a plan to secure our rail system. More people pass through Penn Station in New York City than through La Guardia and JFK airports combined. Union Station, just two blocks from here, is the busiest site in Washington, DC, with 25 million people passing through. Amtrak is expected to patrol those sites with its own meager forces. In Penn Station, only six to eight security guards patrol on weekdays. And they have the weekends off. Whatever you think of passenger rail, it is unconscionable to propose no money--zero, nothing--to increase the security of the 25 million Americans who ride Amtrak every year. This amendment by itself will not take care of those security needs, but it will address the basic needs of passenger rail in our country. I urge my colleagues to support it. 