
            	NBC's Today Show
             November 16, 2005 
 This is a partial transcript of NBCs TODAY SHOW from November 16, 2005.   MATT LAUER, NBC ANCHOR: Senator Joe Biden is the ranking Democrat on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.      Senator, good morning to you.      U.S. SENATOR JOSEPH BIDEN (D-DE):  Good morning, Matt.  How are you doing?      LAUER:  I'm great, thanks.      So it's a non-binding resolution laying out strategy for the next period of time in Iraq. Let me read you some of the wording, the language here. It says that 2006, quote, should be a period of significant transition to full Iraqi sovereignty, with Iraqi security forces taking the lead for the security of a free and sovereign Iraq, thereby creating the conditions for the phased redeployment of United States forces from Iraq.   So a non-binding resolution -- has got the words should be in there.  Does it have any teeth in it?      BIDEN: No, but what it does, Matt -- it is a turning point. You have the vast majority of Democrats and Republicans saying, Mr. President, we are tired of you not leveling with us. What is the plan? What is your strategy? Tell us how you're going to go about this, and tell us what has to be done in order for American troops to come home. And give us a plan for success and your timetable -- your time.   We're not telling the president, You have to get troops out.  You tell us, Mr. President.      Because we're losing the American people, Matt. We're losing them because they look over there and they think -- there's this giant gap between what they see and the rhetoric they hear, and that's what this is.   LAUER: So you've got some cooperation on this bill, but there seems to be disagreement as to what it means. Harry Reid, the leader of the Democrats in the Senate, said it's a no-confidence vote in the Bush administration's Iraqi policy. The White House basically said it's an endorsement of that policy.   How do you see it?      BIDEN: Well, let me ask you a rhetorical question, Matt: Do you think they're happy that we passed it? I think that's the answer to the question.   The truth of the matter is the administration did not want to see this come up. They did not want to see this pass. It does reflect, as one of you or Katie said earlier, the frustration of the United States Congress with the unwillingness or inability of the president to lay out what is the plan for success, other than stay the course and not one day longer.   LAUER: Do you think the Republicans were forced to put forth this amendment, seeing 2006 as a transition year in Iraq because 2006 is also a midterm elections year and they had to send a message to voters saying, We understand the growing discontent with this war?   BIDEN: Well, that may be part of the rationale, but I think it's basically what you hear in the cloakrooms -- in the Democratic and Republican cloakrooms and on the floor. There is an overwhelming frustration. You had so many people on your show, Matt, Republicans who haven't disagreed with a thing I've said or I've not disagreed with them -- the John McCains and the Chuck Hagels, a whole lot of people over there who are very concerned that there doesn't seem to be a coherent plan -- at least if there is one, we're not being told it.   Everybody knows there has to be a political solution, a consensus constitution, more security forces, but we don't see what the administration is doing to accomplish that.   LAUER: Let me ask you about some wording in the larger defense bill. There is wording on the use of torture in that that was put forth by John McCain. It says, in terms of the use of torture, that it would prohibit the cruel, inhumane and degrading treatment of detainees and standardize interrogation procedures used by the U.S. Now, the White House has said they threaten to veto any bill that contains that language.   Where is this going to go?      BIDEN: I pray to God they don't do that, Matt. That would do us more harm around the world than anything that we could do in the near term.   John McCain is right. The idea that the United States of America cannot rally around that assertion about how we're going to treat prisoners seems to me to undercut the very essence of who we want to be viewed as around the world.   I pray to God they don't veto that.  I can't imagine them being that foolish.      LAUER: Let me go off subject with you just slightly. On Tuesday, Major League Baseball announced a new steroid policy: a 50-game ban for the first offense; 100-game ban for the second offense. You're out of baseball if you're caught three times.   Did the players cave in to pressure from Congress?      BIDEN: I don't know what, but thank God. Finally, finally. This should have happened two years ago, three years ago. They've lost so much credibility as a consequence of their dragging their feet.   This is a substantial step, it's significant, and it's about time.      LAUER:  Senator Joe Biden.      Senator, always nice to talk to you.  Thanks.      BIDEN:  Nice talking to you, Matt.  Thanks a lot.      To visit NBC's Today Show website, go to: MSNBC.com   