
            	CBSs Face the Nation
             October 16, 2005 
 This is a partial transcript of CBS's FACE THE NATION from October 16, 2005.   BOB SCHIEFFER, host: And we turn now to Senator Joe Biden, who joins us from Wilmington, Delaware; here in the studio, Senator Chuck Hagel of Nebraska.   Senator Biden, you just heard Lara Logan say that she does not believe that whatever happens in this election it's going to have any kind of impact on the violence there and the danger that the Americans face. What would you say to that?   Senator JOSEPH BIDEN (Democrat, Delaware; Ranking, Foreign Relations Committee): Well, I'd agree with that in the short term, but without a political solution, the Sunnis buying into a constitution some time after the election in December, without that there's no possibility. At least if that occurs, there's the possibility that the insurgency that's home-grown will decide that the political answer is the way out, not violence. That does not deal with, as she referred to, the foreign elements that are in Iraq.   SCHIEFFER: Senator Hagel, you have said before that we're losing this war basically. If the constitution does pass, will you revise and exchange your remarks, as they say in the Congress?   Senator CHUCK HAGEL (Republican, Nebraska; Foreign Relations Committee): Well, any time you can have a free, fair election, that's an accomplishment and that's encouraging and that's positive. And we should see what has occurred in Iraq in that light. That said, I think the report that we just heard from Iraq sets this in the correct frame of reference. Let's take us through the next few months. What's going to be critically important is this election coming up in December which will, in fact, elect a permanent Iraqi government, a government that was not installed by the United States or outside forces, but the Iraqi people will elect that government. They will form that government.   The other part of that that's very important here for everyone to understand is that the four changes that were made by the interim National Assembly last week to the constitution set in motion a continuing process to amend the constitution that was ratified over the last few hours. Now that can go many ways. And the current constitution essentially legitimizes and enshrines the semi-autonomy of the Kurds and the Shias in the south. Now that's a problem for the Sunnis, and that's one of the reasons, I suspect, that we're gonna find when the votes are counted the Sunnis tried to defeat this. Now whether that will actually enhance efforts, we don't know.   One last point: Constitutions are compacts of consensus. You drive toward consensus. That's the political element that's critical here and will determine the future of Iraq. Is this good news today? I think it is. But we have a long way to go. Last point I would make on this point to your question about continued insurgent violence, you remember last January, very little violence that day and essentially leading up to that, but then over the last few months since that election we've had the biggest spike and increase in insurgency attacks and American deaths and casualties we've had in a time frame.     SCHIEFFER: Well, I think that's a very good point to make and one we shouldn't overlook.      Senator Biden, what do you think is gonna happen here on the question of American troop withdrawals? If this does pass, as Lara Logan says she believes that people there believe it's gonna do, should we begin to think about drawing down some of that force? Or where is all this going now?   Sen. BIDEN: Well, I'm not sure, but--to state the obvious, but it seems to me that it depends, as Chuck says, on the December election, whether there's overwhelming Sunni participation in that election to elect parliamentarians, and then to attempt to amend the constitution sufficiently. That would occur--and that would occur in February--amend the constitution again to get a general Sunni buy-in.   The real thing I'm looking at here, Bob, is was there a 90 percent rejection by Sunnis of this constitution or was it a 60 percent rejection? It makes a big difference if any of the Sunnis were split off and they see a political solution. I think we're not likely to draw down anybody through this next phase, which is December, and then the rewriting of a constitution if that occurs. But look, if there ends up being an all-out civil war, and there's a low-grade civil war right now because there's no political buy-in, then we could have 250,000 American troops there and it won't matter.   SCHIEFFER: Do you mean that you fear that there may be a civil war there?      Sen. BIDEN: I do. That has been my constant fear that our--that there will not only be a civil war, that civil war will result in a regional war, because if it breaks down into an all-out civil war, that is if the Sunnis don't buy into this constitution over the next two months by voting for Sunnis in the parliament, in getting--trying to get the constitution amended, if they don't do that, then you're going to see all of the sponsors of the various three major elements there. Everybody has a dog in this fight. We may find a regional war and not just a civil war, and that does not lend itself to any solution by any number of American troops. You'll see us drawing down more rapidly then than otherwise.   If it succeeds, the political process, I predict you'll see a drawdown of American forces by this time next year, with still having somewhere in the range of 50,000 forces in a different configuration than you do now. But it's too early to make that judgment. Chuck is right. I hope they don't declare victory based on this election.   SCHIEFFER: Well, Senator Hagel, do you think it is too late to get the support of the American people? Have Americans given up on this? I mean, that's what polls seem to be suggesting.   Sen. HAGEL: Well, I'll answer two questions, the question you put to Senator Biden and that question. On Biden's question: I think you will see American troops coming out of Iraq next year and we should. Mel Laird, the former secretary of Defense who was the architect of Nixon's Vietnamization program, has a piece in Foreign Affairs magazine this week. It was--premiered in David Broder's column today, and I think he's right. And one of the points that he makes, Laird, is that the longer American troops stay there, the more attractive we are as targets and excuses for insurgents and Sunnis. The longer we stay there, the more enabling we are to the Iraqis. The Iraqis need a new sense of confidence, the ability to be able to sustain and govern and support and defend themselves. It doesn't mean we pull out. It's exactly what he did, Laird did, with Vietnamization, a gradual moving of American influence and troops outside.   Second point. I think that, depending on how these elections go and what we, in fact, end up with and the kind of government that we have, that gives us an opportunity, Bob, that may not come again. and it cuts to your question about confidence in the American public. I think the American public will support it if they see progress. And what I would suggest is use this opportunity after the election, under UN auspices, sponsorship, to call for a regional security conference on Iraq with all of the partners. The United States takes a secondary position. Everyone has a role in this because it is a regional problem. We have another front opened up in Syria. Syria is very unstable. We've got huge problems in Iran. Iran probably has more influence in Iraq than any country today. Our influence is waning. It will continue to wane and so I think it's important to put this thing into a perspective of a regional context.   SCHIEFFER: All right. That's a very interesting proposal. Senator Biden--and you're nodding your head, that you seem to think that's a...   Sen. BIDEN: Well, I talked to you about hav--setting up a contact group there about a year ago if you recall.      SCHIEFFER: Absolutely.      Sen. BIDEN: I agree with Chuck completely.      SCHIEFFER: Let me shift the subject here to what's going up on--on at the Capitol. Senator Biden, you, of course, are a member of the Judiciary Committee. We have this--what's become a very controversial nomination of Harriet Miers to the Supreme Court. What do you think is going to happen there? Do you think there's a chance that the president may have to draw down that nomination?   Sen. BIDEN: Well, I don't understand the Christian Coalition or--and/or Republican politics on this. I'm waiting to find out more about the woman. I know virtually nothing about her. The only thing that's come clear is the hypocrisy of some insisting they need to know about where she stands on the major constitutional issues, yet with Roberts suggesting that we didn't need to know that. They have a right to know. We all have a right to know where she stands on these basic issues. And I hope this puts to bed this notion that it's not a legitimate thing for the United States Congress to find out where a nominee stands on the fundamental constitutional questions facing her.   SCHIEFFER: Well, let me ask you this. Do you think it was right for the president to stress that she is an evangelical Christian and that she went to a very evangelical kind of church in Dallas?   Sen. BIDEN: I call that groping. I mean, it sounds like a man who is going down and decides to try to throw something to his supporters. Look, it wasn't appropriate with Roberts. It's not appropriate with her. It's not appropriate with any nominee in my view. There's a lot of people that have private, personal religious views that, in fact, they swear that they will not let interfere with their reading of the Constitution. I hope to the Lord that's where she is.   SCHIEFFER: All right. Well, since the Lord is not available here...      Sen. BIDEN: No pun intended.      SCHIEFFER: ...let me turn to....      Sen. BIDEN: No pun intended.      SCHIEFFER: ...Senator Hagel and see what he thinks. Is--do you think it was fair and are you getting any pressure from the White House on this?   Sen. HAGEL: No, I'm not getting any pressure from the White House. I think what Joe said is essentially the way to approach it and that's the way I have. I know very little about Harriet Miers. She's an accomplished professional. A lot of people are strongly supporting her. But there's a big black hole out there on judicial philosophy, in many areas that are very important before we make a decision as to who we put on the Supreme Court before life. And one other point I'd make, this nonsense about sexism and elitism. The fact is this is an elite group of individuals. The fact is we want an elite group of individuals. I'm not so sure I want my next-door neighbor, as much as I like him or her, to be on the Supreme Court because they're nice people.   SCHIEFFER: OK.      Sen. HAGEL: This is what we need to determine. It will be determined. Let Ms. Miers explain who she is and what she believes and the process will play out.   SCHIEFFER: All right. Thank you very much. Thanks to both of you. Always enjoy talking to both of you.      Sen. HAGEL: Thanks to you.      SCHIEFFER: Back in a minute with our roundtable discussion. We'll get into the leak investigation and Judy Miller in just a minute.   To visit CBS's Face the Nation website, go to:     CBSNews.com   