
            	Biden: Iraq Dominates Our National Life - We Have a Duty to Debate and Vote on the President's Iraq Strategy
             February 17, 2007 
 Washington, DC - Today the U.S. Senate voted to start the debate on a resolution opposing the President's plan to send more troops into Iraq.  Senator Biden, the author of the original bipartisan resolution with Senators Hagel, Levin and Snowe expressing disapproval of the President's plan to escalate the Iraq War, voted in favor of beginning the debate.    Today, the Senate had an opportunity - and responsibility - to debate the single issue that dominates our national life:  Iraq.  It is on the minds of tens of millions of Americans.  It shapes the lives of hundreds of thousands of our men and woman in uniform and their families.  We have a duty to debate and vote on the President's plan.  We have a duty to debate and vote on our overall strategy in Iraq, said Senator Biden.   Senator Biden has been an early vocal opponent of the President's plan, coming out on December 26, 2006 against the escalation and spearheading the first bipartisan resolution against the plan in the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.  He has said repeatedly that the best way to get the President to change course in Iraq is to show him that the American people - through the voice of Congress - are against his policies.    But opposing the surge is only a first step.  We need a radical change in course in Iraq.   If the President won't act, Congress must.  That's why I am working on a proposal to revisit the authorization Congress granted the President in 2002 to use force in Iraq.   The WMD were not there.  Saddam Hussein is no longer there.  The 2002 authorization is no longer relevant to the situation in Iraq, said Sen. Biden.   In a speech last Thursday to the Brookings Institution, Senator Biden also advocated revisiting the original 2002 Iraq War resolution.  The Congress gave the President the authority in 2002 to destroy Iraq's weapons of mass destruction and, if necessary, to depose Saddam Hussein.  Because the WMD were not there and Saddam Hussein is no longer there, Sen. Biden said that the 2002 authorization is no longer relevant to the situation in Iraq and he is working on legislation to repeal that authorization and replace it with a much narrower mission statement for our troops in Iraq.  Coupled with the Biden-Gelb plan for a political settlement in Iraq, Sen. Biden believes rewriting the authorization is the best way to start bringing our troops home without leaving chaos behind. 