
            	Sens. Biden, Hagel and Levin to Introduce Bipartisan Resolution Expressing Opposition to Iraq War Escalation
             January 17, 2007 
 Washington, DC  Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee Joseph R. Biden, Jr. (D-DE), Senator Chuck Hagel (R-NE) and Chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee Carl Levin (D-MI) introduced a bipartisan Senate Resolution today expressing clear opposition to deepening our military commitment in Iraq.  I believe that when a President goes way off course on something as important as Iraq, the single most effective way to get him to change course is to demonstrate that his policy has waning or no support  from both parties, Senator Biden said. This resolution says what we, Democrats and Republicans, are against: deepening Americas military involvement in Iraq by escalating our troop presence. It also says what we are for: a strategy that can produce a political solution to stop the violence.    The resolution we are introducing today is responsible, forward-looking, bipartisan and constructive. The Iraq war is the most important issue facing America today and the Congress must be engaged in this debate. This resolution engages the Congress in that debate, Senator Hagel said.    The resolution would send a clear, bipartisan message that Congress does not support the plan for escalation because it is based on the false premise that there is a military solution to the violence and instability in Iraq, when what is needed is a political solution among the Iraqi leaders and factions, Senator Levin said.    The bipartisan resolution, to be introduced this afternoon, states that the U.S. strategy and presence on the ground in Iraq can only be sustained with the support of the American people and bipartisan support from Congress. It is not in the national interest of the United States to deepen its military involvement in Iraq, particularly by escalating U.S. troop presence in Iraq.    The resolution also calls for strategy that can produce a political settlement in Iraq: The primary objective of the U.S. strategy in Iraq should be to have the Iraqi political leaders make the political compromises necessary to end the violence.   