
            	Floor Statement: National Budget Should Reflect Our Values and Priorities
             March 17, 2005 
  Mr. BIDEN: Mr. President, to govern is to choose. Nowhere are our priorities and our values made clearer than in the budgets we write here every year.   In these times, we face many tough choices. This budget ducks them all. It chooses the powerful over those without a voice. It chooses to reward wealth instead of work. It chooses the present over the future. It chooses debt and borrowing over sound finance.   This budget rejects the very rules that brought our budget into balance just a few years ago. It ducks our duty to take responsibility for our choices, and sends the bill to our children and grandchildren.      I will vote against this budget, and I urge my colleagues to reject it, too.      Just 4 years ago we were considering the first budget of the new Bush administration. At that time, we could look forward to a decade of budget surpluses, totaling $5.6 trillion.   We were paying down the national debt, and with every dollar accumulating in surplus, we were making our future stronger. Social Security funds were not being spent, as they are today, to fund the other functions of Government. Interest payments on the debt were shrinking, not growing.   With the impending retirement of the Baby Boom generation, with the need to educate and train a workforce to take on the world of the 21st Century, we were doing the right thing--saving for challenges we could see coming.   But instead of seeing those surpluses as an opportunity to get our house in order, instead of increasing our national savings by paying down the debt, the incoming administration insisted on a course that has resulted in the most dramatic reversal in our Nation's finances in our history.   The record at that time is full of warnings that tax cuts of that magnitude would make it difficult, if not impossible, to meet the known challenges ahead, much less any surprises that history could throw at us.   We were assured that the surpluses had to go, that we had all the money we needed to deal with recession, national security threats, natural disasters--anything we might have to face. We would be able to balance the budget, put money away for the surge in retirees, and meet every threat and challenge.   A lot of us did not buy it. The record is full of warnings about the long-term damage of massive tax cuts without regard for our future obligations.   But those tax cuts were passed. And more tax cuts followed every year, in time of economic boom, in time of recession, in peacetime, in wartime, when our budget was in surplus, and increasingly, as our budget deficits grew. Regardless of the situation, regardless of the facts, more tax cuts.   In the face of all the challenges we face, we are now running our Government on a level of revenue not seen since the 1950s. A 21st Century superpower, on a 1950s budget.      By the time they expire, the tax cuts we have put into law over the last 4 years will cost almost $2 trillion.      But we will be asked to extend those cuts past their expiration. Not to do so, we are told, would be a tax increase. But those expiration dates were chosen to make the tax cuts look smaller. Extending those cuts will raise the total cost to over $5 trillion through 2015.   That should cause serious people to stop and think. We are now engaged in an open-ended global war on terror, in a shooting war and reconstruction in Iraq. Security challenges from domestic threats to nuclear proliferation will continue to demand additional resources.   Medicare and Medicaid are facing real crises, driven by an aging population and rising health care costs. Social Security has a long term funding problem that will have to be confronted, the sooner the better.   As the global economy brings billions of new workers and customers into its scope, our country is in a real fight to protect and create good-paying jobs. That means strengthening our schools and universities, increasing research and innovation, investing in 21st Century infrastructure. All of that takes money.      This budget chooses to ignore those priorities. In fact, it cuts the resources we need to meet those challenges.      But it does not touch a dime of the $5 trillion the tax cuts will cost if they are all extended. Not a moment's pause, not a penny reconsidered.   The President constantly reminds us that the world has changed profoundly in the past four years. That is true. He tells us that we face unprecedented challenges. That is also true.   But his budget, the budget before us today, ignores those truths. It continues the most reckless budget policies I have seen in my 30 years in the Senate. Those policies have taken us from the strongest fiscal position we have known to the brink of the abyss. There is no way under these policies that we will ever get out of debt again.   We are now debating the most basic priorities of our Government. The budget document we will vote on today will be the statement of this Senate on what we value, and what I we do not value.   I am sorry to say that the most basic premise of this budget, is wrong. This budget protects tax cuts for those who need them least, and cuts the health care, housing, and education of those who need the most.      It protects the largest tax cuts in our history, in the face of the largest deficits we have ever seen.      The priorities in this budget are wrong. I do not think they are the priorities of the vast majority of people in this country. I know that they are not my priorities.   Time and again during the week of debate, we have tried to provide funding for some priorities, and to reduce the money going to others.   During this debate, I offered an amendment to restore money for the COPS program that has put 100,000 policemen on the streets of our country. To cover those costs, I proposed closing loopholes used by corporations who move overseas to avoid paying taxes. But that amendment was voted down. Cops versus corporate tax breaks. Cops lose.   I voted to provide money for our veterans' health care, so sorely needed in these times. To pay for that, I was ready to close tax those tax loopholes. That amendment was voted down. Veterans versus corporate tax breaks. Veterans lose.   I voted to increase funding for first responders, our first line of defense against terrorism here at home. It was paid for by closing those loopholes. That amendment was rejected. Fighting terrorism versus corporate tax breaks. First responders lose.   I voted restore money for our national passenger rail system that carries 25 million people a year, for which not a dime has been put into this budget. But that amendment was voted down. Passenger rail versus corporate tax breaks. Passenger rail loses.   These and many other examples reveal the real priorities of this budget. Nothing makes that clearer than the outright rejection of the kind of common sense budget rules that helped us balance the budget during the 1990s.   Facing deficits of historical size, with no end in sight, most folks would consider it just common sense to set up some rules to rein this problem in. If you want to cut taxes, then cut spending to match. If you want to increase spending, you have to raise taxes to match.   Pay-as-you-go rules would require us to make tough choices, to take responsibility for our choices, and not just add to the mountains of debt we will dump on our children.   But not only does this budget reject those rules, it actually makes it easier to go deeper into debt, by protecting tax cuts, in time of record deficits. Senator Feingold and Senator Carper both offered amendments to correct that, and both amendments were rejected.      This budget is not just irresponsible, it is openly hostile to any attempt to make us live within our means.      This budget fails to address our most basic needs in these difficult times. It ducks our responsibility to pay for our own decisions. It does not reflect our Nation's priorities.      I urge my colleagues to join me in rejecting it.    