
            	BIDEN Introduces Federal Bail Bond Fairness Act of 2007
             December 18, 2007 
 Legislation Reestablishes Fairness for Defendants, Bail Agents   Washington, DC Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime and Drugs Joseph R. Biden, Jr. (D-DE) introduced the Federal Bail Bond Fairness Act of 2007, legislation that reforms the current federal bail bond system.  Today's bipartisan legislation clarifies for federal courts that bail bonds can only be forfeited for a defendant's failure to appear in court, not for failure to abide by court-imposed behavioral conditions like curfew or sobriety.  By clarifying the law, this bill will ensure that bail bonds remain affordable and available to defendants who are neither a threat to the community or a flight risk.  Those defendants will then remain free pending trial, allowing them to continue to work, reducing our prison population, and avoiding an unnecessary public expenditure.     "When Congress passed bail bond legislation in the 1960s, it recognized that we should hold an accused in jail before a trial has proved their guilt only if they are a threat to the community or a flight risk.  Recently, some courts have strayed from this principle, forfeiting bail bonds if an accused violates a behavioral condition like curfew or sobriety.  As a result, bond prices are rising," said Sen. Biden.  "My bill returns bail bonds to their historical moorings and ensures that they remain available to all non-violent offenders, not just wealthy ones."   The Federal Bail Bond Fairness Act of 2007, which the House of Representatives passed this summer, fixes these problems by clarifying that bail bonds may only be forfeited if a defendant does not appear in court as ordered.  By allowing professional bail agents to get back to writing bonds for their original purpose of providing an incentive for a defendant to appear in court, this bill will ensure that all defendants - regardless of income level - have equal access to pre-trial release.  Under this legislation, judges maintain their discretion in determining whether a defendant poses a flight risk or is a threat to the community.  If a judge deems a defendant dangerous, the criminal will remain in jail.   "Bonds have become rarer and more expensive, and defendants accused of nonviolent crimes have been confined to jail pending trial, swelling our prison population and draining our public coffers.  This bill will help relieve some of the pressure," said Sen. Biden.  "Our funds and resources are better spent investing in crime prevention, supporting our cops and sheriffs on the street, and reducing recidivism rates."    The Bail Bond Fairness Act, cosponsored by Sens. Arlen Specter (R-PA), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), and Ben Cardin (D-MD), is also supported by the Professional Bail Agents of the United States.  