
            	BIDEN Decries Republican Refusal to Vote on Iraq War on Senate Floor Today
             July 18, 2007 
    BIDEN:  "The time now is to stop digging a hole, redeploy our forces, save American lives and begin to push a political settlement.   BIDEN:  "Al Qaeda in Iraq is a Bush-fulfilling prophecy. It did not exist in Iraq, prior to our invasion." Washington, DC - Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee Joseph R. Biden, Jr. (D-DE) delivered the following remarks on the floor of the U.S. Senate today:    Mr. Biden: Madam President, I share the frustration of my friend from Pennsylvania and I'm sureI remember when my colleague, Senator Byrdwhom I still call the leaderwas leader when I got here after Senator Mansfield, that, the way in whichhow things have changed in many ways. One of the things that's changed, Madam President, is what we saw take place today. Here, the single most critical issue facing the United States of America today, the carnage that's taking place in Iraq, the fact that our blood and treasure is being spilled with no apparent end in sight, the notion that we would have to resort to a filibuster to stop a vote of a majorityclear majorityof United States senators who believe that there is an urgent need to change course in Iraq is not only dismaying, but the consequence of it, I believe, is to kick the can down the road another two to three months. In the meantime, many Americans are going to be injured and killed who I believe are notthat could be avoided. You know, ever since the Democrats took back the congress, we've been working to build pressure on the administration and, quite frankly, on a number of our Republican colleagues to change course in Iraq. And because I don't believe there are a dozen Republican senators who agree with the president's present position. I don't believe there's a dozen Republican senators who believe that the results are going to be fundamentally different on September the 5th than they are today, although I respect the fact that they've concluded they want to wait to give the president every opportunity to demonstrate that his plan can work.  But here's the problem, Madam President, with all due respect. The problem is that we're faced with two false choices here in the Congress. One is, the one put forward by the administration and sustained by a minority of votesoverwhelmingly Republicanthat says that we should continue to do what we're doing and essentially hand off the problem to the next president. I don't know anybody here who believes that through escalating this conflict, adding American forces, there's any reasonable prospect that that will bring about the only thing that will end this war in our interest, that is a political settlement amongamong the Iraqis. And then there's a number of Democrats who have a view out of frustration that we must begin to get out of thereget out and hope for the best. And their premise, some of them, as well, that, look, there isn't any reasonable prospect of us being able to do this militarilyand they're rightand the hope is that somehow if we get out, the Iraqis, the Kurds, the Sunnis and the Shias will have a bit of an epiphany, as we Catholics would say, that they'll get together and say, oh my goodness, America and leaving and we better get together and settle our differences here or things are going to completely implode. Well the fundamental strategic flaw in all of that thinking, Madam President, in my humble opinion and I know I'm like a broken record, I've been saying this for over three years and I've laid out a concrete plan over a year ago, the fundamental flaw in this is there's no possibility in the lifetime of any member of this Senate for there to be a coherent central government in Baghdad that has the ability to gain the faith and trust of the people of Iraq and the ability to govern that country. It will not happen. Mark my words. There is no possibility of that happening.    Never [in] my research have I found, ever, has there been a situation where there's been a self-sustaining cycle of sectarian violence, a self-sustaining civil war-exactly what we have now in Iraqthat it has ended in any other than one of four ways. A major power goes in and occupies the country for a generation or more. Not an option available to us, nor is it in our DNA to do that. We are notwe are not the British Empire, we are not the Ottoman Empire, we are not the Persian Empire. Nor do we want to be. The second option is, install a dictator. Wouldn't that be the ultimate irony for the United States of America to install a dictator? Third option, pick a side. Wage in on one side of the sectarian violence, wipe out the other side. Not a good option. A, it would be immoral, B, it would take a couple of years and three, it would ignite a Sunni-Shia revolution from the Mediterranean to the Himalayas. And there has been a fourth way where it's ended. And that is by establishing a federal system within the country, separating the parties, giving them control over the fabric of their daily lives, their own security forces in their own neighborhoods, their own laws relating to religion, education, marriage, divorce, property, jobsa federal system. And coincidentally, that's exactly what the Iraqi Constitution calls for in Article One. It says we are a decentralized federal system. So, absent a political settlement, there is no way out.     I'll make a prediction that I shouldn't make because I've been here, around here, long enough to know that everything you say on this floor you are reminded of if you turn out to be wrong. If you are right you're never reminded of itif you turn out to be wrong, you are reminded whether it is six months, six years or 12 years later. I honestly believe, absent a radical change in course resulting in the federal system existing within Iraq, the only option the next president of the United States is going to have is going to be a reenactment of the scene of Saigon with helicopters lifting people off the roofs of the embassy in the green zone. That's how it's going to endin disaster. I not only don't want my son who is a captain in the United States National Guard going to Iraq, I don't want my grandson going or my granddaughter. And how we leave Iraq, what shape we leave it in, what prospect for a political settlement exists will determine whether my grandson goes back 15 years from now.   So, Madam President, all we did today was take what was originally called the Biden-Hagel etcetera resolution that we introduced in January, then the Biden-Levin resolution, then the Reed, or Levin-Reed-Biden, et al, and now the Levin-Reed amendmentthey all do the same thing. There is not a dime's worth of difference. And what they all said was this: Mr. President, the first thing you do when you are in a hole is stop digging. Stop digging us deeper into this disaster. Cease and desist from placing our troops in the midst of a civil war. We're in the midst of a civil war. The quote "success we're having in Anbar province, what is it doing? It's making the Shia conclude that we are arming and engaging with the Sunnis and the former Ba'athists, making it harder for us to get the Shia to agree to action on the oil law which would be the thing to get the Sunnis to buy into a united Iraq. We're in the midst of a civil war.  And the whole thesis of the idea we came forward with as early as January and we voted on again today is to say get out of that civil war. Use American forces for only three express purposes: One, one, train the Iraqi army; two, deny al Qaeda occupation of large swaths of territory, particularly in Anbar province; and three, protect our diplomats there.  Ladies and gentlemen, my colleagues in the Senate, last week we heard President Bush give a progress report on Iraq and it reminded me of a guy who jumps off 100-story building and he is passing the 50th floor, somebody yells out how's it going, and he yells back so far, so good. That's the summary of the president's report except that it's not even going well so far. And the outcome is absolutely certaincontinued disaster. Also last week, Bob Woodward revealed that back if in November, the CIA Director Michael Hayden made the very point I've been making for two years in a private meeting with Iraqi Study Group. He said quote "the inability of the central government to govern is irreversible," end of quote. There is quote "no milestone or checkpoint where we can turn this thing around," end of quote. Our director of the CIA and all of intelligence came along andexcuse me of the CIA then went on to say "we have spent a lot of energy and treasure creating a government that cannot function," end of quote. What more do we need? I ask my colleagues what more do you need?  Our own intelligence community has been saying since last November that the inability of the central government to govern is irreversible. Irreversible!    Ladies and gentlemen, my colleagues, nothing has happened since General Hayden made his remarks to change that assessment. The time now is to stop digging that hole, redeploy our forces, save American lives and begin to push a political settlement. I'll conclude by saying yesterday, Madam President, yesterday's release of the unclassified key judgments of the National Intelligence Estimate, quote "in the terrorist threat to the United States homeland," end of quote, highlights the urgency of changing our course in Iraq. The so-called NIE is a devastating indictment of the administration's failure to accomplish its most important mission: destroying al Qaeda and the threat it poses. It confirms what was reported last week. The al Qaeda we failed to finish off in Afghanistan and Pakistan, because we went into Iraq, has quote regenerated, and it remains intent on attacking us at home. That should put to rest once and for all this administration's false refrain that we're fighting over there so we don't have to fight them over here. That's rubbish. And our own intelligencethe N.I.E. is, all the intelligence agencies in the United States government coming to a consensus position. It spotlights the danger posed by al Qaeda in Iraq, a group independent but now affiliated with al Qaeda, of Bin Laden. Al Qaeda in Iraq, Madam President, is a Bush-fulfilling prophecy. Say it again: al Qaeda in Iraq is a Bush-fulfilling prophecy. It did not exist in Iraq, prior to our invasion. The failed policies, the failure to deal with an administrative policy, a political solution, what it does now is it helps al Qaeda energize extremists around the world, raise money for new recruits, and become stronger, all the more reason we must act now, Madam President, to refocus our energies and resources on al Qaeda and start to get our troops out of Iraq's civil war while limiting the mission of those that remaining to deny al Qaeda in Iraq a safe haven.     Finally, Madam President, I say to my colleagues that regardless of your views on the war and how to end it, there is one commitment each and every one of us should make. That commitment is so long as there is a single, a single American troop in Iraq, a single American troop in Iraq that we should do all that is needed to give them the best possible protection this country can provide. And the way to start with that is these mine-resistant vehicles, to replace the Humvees with these vehicles that in our last authorizationour, the supplemental, I was able to convince our colleagues to add $1.7 billion more to build them. These vehicles have a v-shaped hull and they can reduce causalities from roadside bombs by up to 80%, and right now 70% all casualties taking place in Iraq are because of roadside bombs. Madam President, I'm going to, I will offer an amendment to the defense bill when we get to it to make clear, without absolutely no ambiguity, that Congress will provide every single dollar needed and every authority necessary to build these vehicles as quickly as possible because our kids are dying. Our kids are dying and it can be radically reduced, the number of casualties. So let me conclude. Mr. President, by saying, our Republican colleagues say, and even my colleagues all of whom I respect, but ones I particularly respect like Senator Lugar, that they expect the President to voluntarily change course. Mr. President, I have absolutely no faith, none whatsoever, in this President being able to voluntarily do what should be done. The only way it's going to happen is when my Republican friends stop voting for the President and start voting to end this war by supporting our troops. I thank the Chair and I yield the floor. 