
            	Senate Passes Biden Resolution Calling on Bush, G-8 Leaders to Confront Putin on Russias Retreat from Democracy
             July 18, 2006 
 WASHINGTON, DC  The U.S. Senate has unanimously adopted a resolution sponsored by U.S. Senator Joseph R. Biden, Jr. (D-DE) that calls on leaders participating in the upcoming G-8 Summit in St. Petersburg to confront President Vladimir Putin about his governments increasing authoritarianism.  Senator Biden released the following statement after the resolution was passed by the Senate:In the six years since President Putin took office, Russia has experienced the biggest rollback of freedom thats occurred anywhere in decades.  Its time for the worlds leading democracies to recognize that fact, and get tough on the Putin administrations attempts to suppress political dissent and bully Russias neighbors.This resolution calls on President Bush to come together with the other democratic members of the G-8 and let President Putin know that his attempts to turn back the clock on democracy in Russia are unacceptable.  It also calls on international leaders to increase their support for NGOs and civil society groups working to promote freedom in Russia, protect the freedom of Russias media, and help the struggling young democracies the Kremlin has been working to undermine.We cant continue ignoring the situation in Russia. Instead of assuming its rightful place as a great country and force for stability, it is dealing with demographic collapse, an epidemic of corruption, leaders who use energy as a weapon of mass disruption, and an authoritarian government drawn from the ranks of the KGB.  Theyre also the only country in the world with enough nuclear weapons and delivery capability to wipe us out.  If we dont start dealing with Russias problems now, you can bet that theyll become our problems later. The resolution, S.Res. 530., received broad bipartisan support and was cosponsored by Senators Frist, Sarbanes, Allen, Dodd, and Kerry.  Separately, the Senate today also passed a resolution cosponsored by Senator Biden calling for greater respect for religious freedom in Russia. 