
            	Police are everyday heroes
             May 18, 2007 
 The Delaware News JournalPolice are everyday heroes By Sen. Joseph R. Biden, Jr.May 18, 2007Heroism happens every day. We see examples of it on the news, from our soldiers overseas who commit acts of inspirational bravery. We owe them a debt of immeasurable gratitude.But we also cannot forget that here at home thousands of brave men and women place themselves in harm's way for the safety of our nation. This week especially, as we commemorate National Police Week, we pay tribute to the sacrifices that our domestic soldiers in federal, state and local law enforcement make to protect communities from crime and terrorism.Officers on the front lines live by the credo "to protect and serve." Unfortunately, this duty can involve a family making the ultimate sacrifice. Each year, between 140 and 160 officers are killed in the line of duty. Nearly one officer is lost every two days. Each had a personal story, a family in grief and a life deserving of honor.In 1962, President John F. Kennedy signed a proclamation declaring that police officers "by their patriotic service and their dedicated efforts have earned the gratitude of the Republic," and designated the week of May 15 as National Police Week. Since then, Police Week has been a time when thousands gather in communities to honor the sacrifices of law enforcement officers. Moreover, they are displays of solidarity among survivors.This year, the names of 145 officers who gave their lives in service in 2006 will be inscribed at the National Law Enforcement Officer Memorial in Washington, D.C. Fortunately, no Delawareans are on this list, but we have not always been so blessed. For families of law officers throughout the nation, the fear of a loved one not returning from a day's work is part of everyday life.This week we thank police officers, we remember those who paid the ultimate price while serving communities, and we give comfort to the loved ones they have left behind.U.S. Sen. Joseph R. Biden, Jr. is the senior Democratic senator from Delaware and chairman of the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime and Drugs. 