
            	Return the COPS to our schools
             October 18, 2006 
 Return the COPS to our schoolsPublished in the October 18, 2006 edition of the Pittsburgh Post-GazetteBy Joe BidenThe recent school tragedies in Pennsylvania, Wisconsin and elsewhere have starkly highlighted the dangers our children face in our nation's schools. While the spate of tragedies has focused the national conscience, this is not a new phenomenon. There have been 225 deaths from school-related violence since the 1999 tragedy in Columbine, Colo., and violent crime and gang violence more generally is going up. President Bush recently convened a White House conference to discuss strategies to combat school violence. While engaging in a dialogue is always a good thing, the President is dead wrong when he argued that the federal government has no role -- other than sharing information and best practices -- in combating school violence. In the president's view, crime -- including school violence -- is a local problem to be addressed by local officials. In my view, this is dangerous and short-sighted. The federal government has an obligation to do all that it can to ensure the safety of our nation's cities, towns and especially our schools and children. Thus, it is critical that we support federal programs that can help prevent school violence. COPS (Community Oriented Policing in Schools) is just such a program. It was created after the 1999 Columbine tragedy and builds on one principal proposition: Specially trained school resource officers on patrol at our schools can make our kids safer. The COPS program has funded more than 6,424 school officers, and these officers engage in community policing techniques that have been proven to deter violence. Research has shown that 81 percent of violent offenders communicate their intentions prior to acting. These officers work with students and faculty to recognize these signs to prevent acts of violence before they occur. They also work with school officials to ensure a rapid, coordinated response if an incident does occur. Local law enforcement and school administrators recognize the value of school resource officers and, as a result, the COPS program enjoys widespread support around the nation. Professors at Yale and Georgetown University concluded in a recent study that each federal dollar invested in COPS yields between $6 and $12 in benefits to society by reducing crime -- "making COPS one of the most cost-effective ways available to reduce crime." Nevertheless, it has been abandoned in recent years. In fact, President Bush has proposed to eliminate funding for COPS in his budget request each of the past five years. Regrettably, and despite my strong objections, Congress has followed suit and reduced funding for this program from a high of $180 million in 2002 until it was completely eliminated last year -- and again this year. The impact of these cuts is stark. Back in 2004, the COPS office was forced to reject applications for 2,865 officers and it has been unable to solicit more applications due to lack of funding since that time. The bottom line is that the president has the wrong priorities for America. Year after year, the president proposes cutting billions for COPS and other programs that assist local law enforcement. Instead, his priority is to extend a $60 billion a year tax cut for millionaires. The right priority for our nation would be to take back some of the tax cuts going to people making more than a million dollars year and place the money in a Homeland Security Trust Fund dedicated to completely funding initiatives for homeland security and preventing local violence -- such as the COPS program. It is critical that our nation's schools be a safe haven for our children. With local school boards facing budget shortfalls and local law enforcement stretched too thin combating rising crime and terrorism, the federal government simply must step in to promote a safe learning environment in our nation's schools. We owe our children nothing less. 