
            	Senate Approves Biden's National Child Protection Improvement Act
             October 18, 2007 
 WASHINGTON, DC -- Last night the United States Senate unanimously approved bipartisan legislation authored by Senators Joe Biden (D-DE) and Strom Thurmond (R-SC) to protect children, the elderly and individuals with disabilities by providing non-profit groups with easy access to thorough, efficient criminal background checks.  The National Child Protection and Volunteers for Children Improvement Act provides $100 million to establish a clearinghouse within the Justice Department to perform nationwide criminal history records checks.  The background checks will be provided to organizations which utilize volunteers for a minimal fee and to all other organizations that serve children, the elderly and individuals with disabilities for $18 per check. In their efforts to provide care for America's children, groups like the Boys  Girls Clubs currently depend on a confusing, ineffective, and costly system that leaves kids, the elderly and other vulnerable people at risk, said Biden, Chairman of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime and Drugs.  Approval of this measure brings us one step closer to ensuring our kids, our grandparents, and those with disabilities are safe when they place their lives in the hands of employees and volunteers for organizations that provide care, treatment, education and training. Praising Senator Bidens efforts in spearheading this initiative, Robbie Callaway, Senior Vice President of the Boys  Girls Clubs of America, noted: Your bill will provide groups like Boys  Girls Clubs of America with real and easy access to criminal background checks so that we can quickly and absolutely ascertain that the staff and volunteers who come into contact with our young people have only the best of intentions. Each year, more than 87 million children are involved in activities provided by child and youth organizations that depend heavily on volunteers to deliver their services.  The National Mentoring Partnership reports that incidents of child sexual abuse in child care settings, foster homes and schools range from 1 to 7 percent. Currently, many child service organizations do background checks on their employees and volunteers, but they may have to wait weeks or months for the result of a state or national criminal background check. Conducting these checks is costly and many organizations conduct only a limited check of their volunteers. The national clearinghouse established in the Biden-Thurmond bill would screen thousands of employees and volunteers each year.  The measure also authorizes funds for states to hire personnel and improve fingerprint technology so they can quickly update information in national databases.  There are a lot of organizations out there that have great intentions, but they don't have adequate access to the FBIs national fingerprint database.  This means that while an employee or volunteer may pass a background check in one state, he may have been convicted of a felony in another, noted Biden.  Our children, our parents, and the disadvantaged are at risk and they need our help.  This bill will make it safer for human service organizations to give their communities the safe and effective service they deserve. The bill, S.1868, must now be considered by the House of Representatives. 