
            	BIDEN Legislation to Support Peacekeeping Operations in Darfur Passes as Part of an Amendment to the Defense Authorization Bill
             September 18, 2007 
 Washington, DC - Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee Joseph R. Biden's (D-DE) amendment requiring a report on the operational status of the Abeche Airfield in Chad was unanimously endorsed by the Senate as part of a managers' amendment to the Defense Authorization Bill. The bipartisan legislation, co-sponsored by Senators Christopher J. Dodd (D-CT) and Elizabeth Dole (R-NC), aims to highlight the potential significance of Chad's Abeche airfield for military and humanitarian operations in the Darfur region, including peacekeeping efforts.    The amendment expresses the sense of Congress that the United States should assist in upgrading the airfield for possible peacekeeping operations and to support humanitarian relief efforts. It requires a report from the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of State, on the current operational status of the Abeche airfield as well as recommendations and cost estimates for upgrades to support potential enhanced operations and increased air traffic. The amendment also requires an assessment of the force size and composition that would be necessary for an international effort to provide protection to displaced civilians in the Darfur region and provide broader stability within the Darfur region.   "Darfur, Sudan and eastern Chad have witnessed terrible human suffering in recent years," said Senator Biden. "Hundreds of thousands of people have been killed and millions more remain displaced. Strengthening the capacity of the Abeche airfield, located near the Chad-Sudan border, would allow for stepped up humanitarian access as well as potential support for other peacekeeping operations in the region. Requiring the Secretary of State and Secretary of Defense to provide a report on the current operational status of the airfield as well as an assessment of potential upgrades to support expanded operations and increased traffic would help pave the way for physical upgrades and signal our support for humanitarian and peacekeeping operations in the region."    