
            	Congress Renews Biden's Violence Against Women Act
             December 19, 2005 
 WASHINGTON, DC  Congress worked over the weekend to pass a comprehensive crime bill that includes U.S. Senator Joe Bidens (D-DE) Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) of 2005. The legislation increases funding for women's shelters and law-enforcement training and also focuses on other crucial aspects of domestic violence and sexual assault, such as treating children impacted by violence, enhancing health care for rape victims, holding repeat offenders and high-tech stalkers accountable, and easing housing problems for battered women.   The bill also includes key provisions authored by Senator Biden to combat crime, protect kids, improve drug courts and put more cops on the beat.   Senator Biden, author of the original Violence Against Women Act of 1994 and VAWA 2000 called passage of the bill a major victory and added this legislation is crucial to ensuring the safety and security of Americans.   Earlier this year Senators Biden, Arlen Specter (R-PA), and Orrin Hatch (R-UT), co-authored The Violence Against Women Act of 2005. The bill provides $795 million a year to continue funding several successful programs for training, education and outreach so that state and federal agencies can do a better job of preventing violence against women and assisting victims of domestic violence. It also stiffens penalties for repeat abusers and focuses on breaking the cycle of violence through education and helping rural victims in under-served areas.   The bill is a comprehensive measure that strikes the right balance between rejuvenating core programs, making targeted improvements and responsibly expanding the Violence Against Women Act to reach the needs of Americas families, said Biden. The Violence Against Women Act of 2005 provides cities and towns with the tools they need to combat domestic violence, assist victims and go after abusers when it occurs, said Biden.   Bidens original Violence Against Women Act established new federal crimes for domestic violence, sexual assault, and stalking. The law also created the National Domestic Violence Hotline (1-800-799-SAFE), which has answered over 1 million calls and helped train police, prosecutors and court officials to more effectively treat victims of domestic abuse and sexual assault.   VAWA grants also support local Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner (SANE) programs, which train registered nurses to conduct sexual assault forensic exams. It also enhanced protection for battered immigrants and helped raise public awareness about a long hidden epidemic in this country.   In addition to renewing VAWA, the bill extends and improves several important and effective Justice Department programs authored by Senator Biden, including the drug court program and drug treatment for prisoners in state and federal prisons, to treat addiction among offenders to reduce recidivism.   The legislation reauthorizes the Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) Program for four years in the amount of $1.05 billion per year. The COPS program, which was created by the landmark 1994 Biden Crime Bill has been hailed as miraculous success by the Attorney General of the United States and is strongly supported by state and local law enforcement officials throughout the nation. A recent study by the Government Accountability Office statistically concluded what these experts have known all along: the COPS program helps to reduce crime.   This bill improves the COPS program by providing more flexibility for state and local law enforcement agencies applying for federal grants, noted Biden. This will help ensure that they have the resources to meet the challenge of ensuring the safety of American citizens from crime and terrorism.   Also included in the final package is Senator Bidens provision to extend the Child Safety Pilot Program for an additional 30-month period. This program, which Biden helped create through The PROTECT Act of 2003, makes nationwide FBI fingerprint background checks accessible to youth-serving organizations at a reasonable cost and with quick turnaround time. The Child Safety Pilot Program has prevented thousands of sex offenders and other criminals from working with children, and Senator Bidens legislation will ensure it continues to function beyond the original expiration date of February 1, 2006.       The bill now goes to President Bush to be signed into law.   