
            	Biden on Increased Violence in Middle East
             July 19, 2006 
 Washington, DC  U.S. Senator Joseph R. Biden, Jr. (D-DE) offered the following comments today on the increased violence and turmoil in the Middle East:   The Hezbollah attack on Israel and kidnapping of its soldiers was totally unprovoked. Israel left southern Lebanon six years ago  just as it left Gaza -- and their mutual border was endorsed by the United Nations. Under Security Council Resolution 1559, Syria was supposed to withdraw, the Lebanese Army was supposed to deploy to the border, and Hezbollah and other militias were supposed to disarm. The Administration pushed hard for the first requirement, but did little to advance the other two. Meanwhile, Iran outspent us by as much as 5 to 1 in Lebanon, giving Hezbollah the resources to out-compete the Lebanese government in building social services and military might.   Hezbollah is not just holding two Israelis hostage. Along with Syria and Iran, it is holding all of Lebanon hostage. The Lebanese people want to enjoy a normal life in a normal country. That can only happen when the Lebanese government controls its own territory and Hezbollah gets rid of its weapons.   As bad as the situation looks, there is an opportunity for an outcome that weakens the extremists and bolsters the moderates. The Israeli military campaign must be complemented by an American-led diplomatic strategy. Biden said.   Biden added that the Administration should be working now to build a strong international consensus  including countries in the region  to do three things:   1) Get the Lebanese Army to the border, with the possibility of an international/UN force in the interim to augment it. To prevent a repeat of 1983, there has to be a political context for an international force. It also has to have the ability to physically prevent Hezbollah from coming back.   2)	Set up a mechanism to begin disarming Hezbollah of its rockets and missiles.    3)	Build up the Lebanese government and army and decisively shift the balance of power away from Hezbollah.    If we do these things, we can deal a setback to Iran and Syria, Biden said.       