
            	Key Senate Panel Urged to Renew the Violence Against Women Act
             July 19, 2005 
 WASHINGTON, DC  The effort to renew Senator Joe Bidens (D-DE) landmark Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) got a major boost today from Oscar-nominated actress and Avon Foundation spokeswoman Salma Hayek, former NBA player and coach M.L. Carr, and members of the law enforcement community and victims rights advocates.   At a Judiciary Committee hearing on the Violence Against Women Act of 2005, U.S. senators heard from a panel of experts on the front line of the battle to end domestic violence and rape. Their message was clear: The Violence Against Women Act is an incredibly effective tool to prevent, identify, investigate and punish domestic violence and the bill must be reauthorized before it expires in September of 2005.   Earlier this year Senators Biden, Arlen Specter (R-PA), and Orrin Hatch (R-UT), co-authored The Violence Against Women Act of 2005. The bill provides $795 million a year to continue funding several successful programs for training, education and outreach so that state and federal agencies can do a better job of preventing violence against women and assisting victims of domestic violence. It also stiffens penalties for repeat abusers and focuses on breaking the cycle of violence through education and helping rural victims in under-served areas.   Senator Biden, author of the original Violence Against Women Act of 1994 and VAWA 2000 called the legislation critical to ensuring the safety and well being of our nation's women and children.   The Violence Against Women Act of 2005 provides cities and towns with the tools to craft both big and small improvements that can make all the difference to victims of domestic violence, said Biden. The Acts programs range from policies to encourage the arrest and prosecution of abusers, to victims services like shelters, to education that can prevent violence against women from happening in the first place.   It is an honor to add my voice in support of The Violence Against Women Act. We cannot tolerate a world in which one in three women is a victim of domestic violence, and for the past year I have worked with Avon and the Avon Foundation on the new Speak Out Against Domestic Violence program, stated Ms. Hayek. Individuals, companies like Avon and the government working together can help bring hope and empowerment to women and break the cycle of domestic violence.   Bidens original Violence Against Women Act established new federal crimes for domestic violence, sexual assault, and stalking. The law also created the National Domestic Violence Hotline (1-800-799-SAFE) and helped train police, prosecutors and court officials to more effectively treat victims of domestic abuse and sexual assault. VAWA grants also support local Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner (SANE) programs, which train registered nurses to conduct sexual assault forensic exams. It also enhanced protection for battered immigrants and helped raise public awareness about a long hidden epidemic in this country.   Since the original Violence Against Women Act was enacted, there has been a steep drop in reported cases of domestic violence and a 22 percent decline in women being killed by husbands or boyfriends. However, domestic violence is still widespread in America. According to the Department of Justice, more than 2.5 million women are victims of violence each year and nearly one in every three women experiences at least one physical assault by a partner during adulthood. Reports also indicate that up to ten million children experience domestic violence in their homes each year.   This is not the time to scale back our efforts. Instead, Congress must usher the Violence Against Women Act into the 21st century and plant the seeds with the next generation of children who must be taught that abuse will not be tolerated, concluded Biden.   ###      For information on the Avon Foundation Speak Out Against Domestic Violence Program contact Susan Arnot Heaney 212-282-5668 susan.heaney@avonfoundation.org   Summary of The Violence Against Women Act of 2005      Title I on the criminal justice system will: (1) renew and increase funding to over $400 million a year for existing grant programs for law enforcement, lawyers, judges and advocates; (2) stiffen existing criminal penalties for repeat federal domestic violence offenders; and (3) update the criminal law on stalking to incorporate new surveillance technology like Global Positioning Systems (GPS).   Title II on critical victim services will : (1) create a new, dedicated grant program for sexual assault victims that will strengthen the 1,300 rape crisis centers across the country; (2) reinvigorate programs to help older and disabled victims of domestic violence; (3) strengthen existing programs for rural victims and victims in underserved areas; and (4) increase funding to $5 million a year for the National Domestic Violence Hotline.   Title III on youth and children includes measures to: (1) promote collaboration between domestic violence experts and child welfare agencies; and (2) enhance to $15 million a year grants to reduce violence against women on college campuses.   Title IV aimed at prevention strategies includes programs supporting home visitations and specifically engaging men and boys in efforts to end domestic and sexual violence.   Title V strengthens the health care systems response to family violence with programs to train and educate health care professionals on domestic and sexual violence, foster family violence screening for patients, and more studies on the health ramifications of family violence.   Title VI eases the housing problems for battered women by, including (1) $20 million grant programs to facilitate collaboration between domestic violence organizations and housing providers; (2) programs to combat family violence in public and assisted housing, including new requirements that domestic violence victims may not be evicted or cut off from voucher services because of the violence; and (3) enhancements to transitional housing resources.   Title VII helps abused women maintain secure employment by permitting battered women to take limited (up to 10 days) employment leave to address domestic violence, such as attend court proceedings, or move to a shelter. Because the type of leave needed can differ significantly from leave covered by the Family and Medical Leave Act -- and often will be non-medical -- these provisions do not amend the Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) in any way; however, the notice and certification requirements are very similar to those required under the FMLA.   Title VIII improves and expands the immigration protections for battered women. In addition, it would ensure that victims of trafficking are supported with measures such as permitting their families to join them in certain circumstances, expanding the duration of a T-visa, and providing resources to victims who assist in investigations or prosecutions of trafficking cases brought by state or federal authorities. Title IX focuses more closely on violence against Native American women by creating a new tribal Deputy Director in the Office on Violence Against Women dedicated to coordinating federal policy and tribal grants. Authorizes tribal governments to access and upload domestic violence and protection order data on criminal databases, as well as create tribal sex offender registries, and strengthens available criminal penalties.   