
            	Senator Biden on Larry King Live
             July 19, 2006 
 Copyright 2006 Cable News Network  All Rights Reserved.      CNN      SHOW: CNN LARRY KING LIVE 9:00 PM EST      July 19, 2006 Wednesday      TRANSCRIPT: 071901CN.V22      SECTION: NEWS; International      LENGTH: 7165 words      HEADLINE: Death Toll Keeps Rising in Eighth Day of Mideast Conflict      BYLINE: Larry King, Matthew Chance, Aneesh Raman, Nic Robertson, Christiane Amanpour, Anderson Cooper, Jamie McIntyre, Chris Burns   GUESTS: Terry Waite, Thomas Sutherland, Muhammad Faris, George Hale, Shimon Peres, Nada Ghattas, Ryan Burnett, Amer Issa, Sue McDiarmid, Mohamed Elabdullah, Joe Biden   HIGHLIGHT:       The death toll keeps rising in the eighth day of Mideast conflict.      BODY:      KING: Let's check in with Senator Joe Biden now in Washington. Senator -- in Wilmington, Delaware, a little dramatic, Joe. I guess you understand.   SEN. JOSEPH BIDEN (D), DELAWARE: Yes, it is. No, I do. I've just been talking to a Delawarean over there trying to get his wife and daughter out of south Lebanon and they got out. They got to Beirut. Now we're trying to get them to Cyprus. So, at any rate, I understand. I'm glad Amer has good news.   KING: Is this the beginning of World War III?      BIDEN: No, it's not the beginning of World War III. Actually, it may be a real opportunity to change the dynamic in the region, Larry. This is the first time that everyone's on the same page.   Not only are the Hezbollah holding Israeli soldiers hostage but they're holding Lebanon hostage and half the Lebanese people are angered at Hezbollah. The whole Sunni world understands this is a major gambit by Iran.   France and the European countries are united in this effort. And so, if we're smart, we have an opportunity to use this as a very serious uniting effort to close down Syria and put inordinate pressure on Hezbollah.   KING: Is Hezbollah the prime villain?      BIDEN: Absolutely, positively, unequivocally, aided and abetted by Syria and Iran. Larry, you remember when France and the United States got a resolution passed in the United Nations almost a year ago calling for the Syrians to leave their occupation of Lebanon, which they did. But there were two other parts we never followed up on. It called for the disarmament of Hezbollah and it called for the Lebanese Army to move down into that region along the border because Lebanon didn't have any beef with Israel and Israel had no beef with Lebanon. And so, this was a deliberate effort to throw these two countries into this turmoil and the whole world knows it.   KING: What in your opinion is the United -- what should the United States be doing? Or, do you agree with what they're doing?   BIDEN: Well, I agree. First of all we were a little slow on the uptake in the evacuation and I got a couple numbers, Larry. I don't know whether it's appropriate to give them to you but I spoke to the State Department.   If you're an American citizen in the United States with family in Lebanon all you got to do is call 888-407-4747, give information about your family there, cell phone, et cetera, State Department in the United States will help you get connected and help get them out.   If you are listening internationally, American citizen in Lebanon, the number to call is in the U.S. dial country code and then 202-501-4444 because our embassy is overloaded. They can't take the calls. And State Department has finally set up a vehicle where they can get directly involved to add additional people to identify where folks are and get them out.   KING: Is there anything more the United States should be doing?      BIDEN: Yes, well I'm hoping they're doing some of what I'm about to say, although I don't know, Larry. This is a chance to get France more engaged in propping up the Lebanese government, helping train the Lebanese Army.   This is an opportunity for us to rally the Sunni Arab world from the Saudis to the Egyptians to put inordinate pressure upon Syria, who Syria relies heavily on the Sunni, wealthy Sunni countries, to cease and desist from this partnership with Iran and the support of Hezbollah.   In addition to that, this is a time where in which we should be preparing to get a U.N. resolution, which I think the administration is doing, to get Lebanese forces in the south along the border, along with U.N. forces that have countries participating that can shoot straight and hurt bad people if they have to.   They're the elements of what needs to be done now. Some of it I'm confident is being done. Others I'm not sure about.      KING: Thanks, Senator. We'll call on you again soon. Thanks for giving up part of your time.      BIDEN: Thanks a lot, Larry, OK.   