
            	Senator Biden on CNN Situation Room
             October 19, 2006 
 BLITZER:  And as the secretary of state travels across the Asian      region, many lawmakers back here in the United States are debating the best way forward in this nuclear crisis.       And joining us now, Senator Joe Biden.  He's the ranking Democrat      on the Foreign Relations Committee.       Senator, you have confidence in the way the president of the      United States is handling this crisis with North Korea right now?       BIDEN:  Well, I think Condi being in the region is a good idea.      I don't have confidence that they've made the choice that has to be      made.  It's either going to have to be regime change, and they stick      with that, or conduct change.  I don't think you can get the change in      conduct while insisting on regime change.       BLITZER:  The president is warning of, quote, grave      consequences if the North Koreans were to transfer some of that      nuclear technology to a third party, especially a terrorist group.      Undefined what grave consequences would mean.       What should it mean?       BIDEN:  Well I think it should mean, if they were to do that and      it was used against us, we would attack them, we would retaliate      against North Korea.  That's what I think it should mean.       BLITZER:  With all the might and force of the United States,      including nuclear weapons?       BIDEN:  With all the might and force of the United States.       If, in fact, it was a nuclear weapon used against us, I would not      rule anything off the table.  They should understand the transfer of      deadly weapons, weapons of mass destruction, to a third party,      traceable to them, they are responsible, as if they used it.       BLITZER:  All right, let's talk about Iraq -- the president      insisting that those Democrats who want to cut and run, in his words,      who want to pull out with a date certain, that's the equivalent of      surrender.       Listen to this exchange he had with George Stephanopoulos:       (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)       GEORGE W. BUSH, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:  I can name a      Democrat who said there ought to be a date certain from which to      withdraw from Iraq whether or not we've achieved a victory or not.       GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS, ABC WASHINGTON CORRESPONDENT:  That's      surrender?       BUSH:  Yes, it is, if you pull the troops out before the job is      done.  Absolutely, George.       (END VIDEO CLIP)       BLITZER:  All right, do you want to respond to what the president      charged?       BIDEN:  Yes.  I don't know any Democrats that set a date certain.      All I know is you have Vice President Cheney saying that things are      going remarkably well.  These guys need a very incredible dose of      reality.       Even the general in charge, General Caldwell, the spokesperson in      Iraq, has just acknowledged that the operation to shut down Baghdad      and bring order is not working.  They have no plan, Wolf.       What we need is a change and a plan.  Everyone from John Warner      to Joe Biden, Democrat, Republican and independent is saying:  Mr.      President, get a grip here.       BLITZER:  You said this recently on your Web site,      planforiraq.com -- you said, Sectarian violence among Shiites, Sunnis      and Kurds is now the major impediment to stability and progress in      Iraq.  No number of troops can solve that problem.  Because some are      suggesting, like John McCain and others, that the U.S. should have      sent a lot more troops into Iraq and maybe that could have gotten the      job done.       Are you saying right now that it's too late for a major increase      of forces, that that would have an impact?       BIDEN:  Yes, I am saying it's too late.  And you may recall, I'm      the first person to call for a major increases in forces in Iraq four      years ago, and John McCain, maybe on your program it was, said I was      sounding hysterical.       If we had done it the right way in the beginning, we wouldn't be      here.  But we are here now.  It is a civil war.  All the king's horses      and all the king's men will not hold Iraq together.  You need a      political settlement.  You've got to get the parties to buy in.  You      must give the Sunnis a piece of the oil.  You must allow the      federation system that they're working on in their parliament to      become a reality.  And you must keep the neighboring countries out.       That requires a political solution, not a military one.       BLITZER:  The White House press secretary, Tony Snow, today said      that any suggestion of dividing up Iraq into autonomous regions --      three regions, for example, along the lines of Sunni, Shia and Kurd --      in his words, that would be a nonstarter as far as President Bush is      concerned.       You and Les Gelb, the former president of the Council on Foreign      Relations, have suggested creating some autonomous zones -- three      zones, specifically, in Iraq.       You want to defend your stance in the face of this White House      rejection?       BIDEN:  Yes, I will.  Tony should read the Iraqi constitution and      look what the Iraqis just did.  The Iraqis, in their parliament, just      passed what Les and I have been calling for.  They have just passed a      mechanism by which their constitution allows any three of their      governance provinces to have not autonomy separate -- there's still a      strong central government -- but have the kind of flexibility that      states in the United States have.       So they have their own state police, their own laws relating to      marriage, their own laws relating to property -- the very things that      are causing them to kill one another.       I have never called for the division of Iraq.  And ask Tony to      read what the parliament in Iraq just did.  They voted to set into      motion a means by which they can implement the provisions of the      constitution of Iraq to allow any three provinces to decide to join      together and form a region not independent of a strong government, but      semi-autonomous in the sense that the states are semi-autonomous.       That's all we're calling for -- not a division of Iraq.       BLITZER:  Are we seeing, as Tom Friedman wrote in the New York      Times this week, possibly the Iraqi equivalent right now of the Tet      Offensive, designed to try to push the U.S. out of Iraq?       BIDEN:  Well, I think it may have that effect.  But I think Tom      is giving these folks too much credit.  This is a civil war that's      erupting.  It is a fact that the Sunnis are going after the Shia, the      Shia after the Sunnis; they're even going after the Kurds in the north      up in Kirkuk and other places.       And so this is an out-of-control situation without a central      government that has the capacity to, in fact, bring about a political      solution.       Look what Maliki is just doing, the prime minister.  He insisted,      he put pressure on the United States military to give up the number      two man that Sadr has been using, who we think is a terrorist.  He has      insisted that he's not going to do anything to disarm the militia, the      Mahdi army, until some time next year.  And they're the people      shooting and killing Americans.       BLITZER:  We have to, unfortunately, leave it there.       Senator Biden, thanks very much for joining us.       BIDEN:  Thank you.  Thank you very much, Wolf.      