
            	Senator Biden on President Bush's Speech to the United Nations
             September 19, 2006 
 WASHINGTON, DC  U.S. Senator Joseph R. Biden, Jr. (D-DE), ranking member on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, issued the following statement in reaction to President Bushs speech today to the United Nations General Assembly:    President Bushs three day trip to New York this week to speak to the UN General Assembly and meet with foreign leaders is a test of this Administrations diplomacy, the U.N.s resolve and our allies determination.    I am heartened that President Bush has named a Special Envoy to Darfur. Thats a good step  one I, along with many others, have called for and support. But to stop the killing, we need a No-Fly Zone and an international peacekeeping force in Darfur as soon as possible. If Khartoum continues to resist, we should impose both. President Bush has rightly called what is happening in Darfur, genocide. It is past time that the world took action accordingly.    The President is right that democracy is an antidote to extremism, but he continues to equate it with elections, which are necessary but not enough. We need to do the hard work of building democratic institutions and actively support moderates in the Middle East. Because this Administration failed to do those things, its freedom agenda has mostly served to legitimize already militarized groups like Hamas and Hezbollah.    When the President talks about Iraq and Afghanistan, he seems to be speaking from an alternative reality. In Iraq, we may be on the verge of trading a dictator for chaos. This Administration has no strategy for success in Iraq  its only strategy is to prevent defeat and hand the problem off to the next Administration. In Afghanistan, because we failed to finish the job, the Taliban is making a comeback and violence and drug production are hitting record highs. Where is the plan to turn Afghanistan around?    None of these problems  or the challenges posed by Iran and North Korea  can be solved by the United States acting alone. We need to build effective coalitions and make sure were isolating the problems, not America. Thats the work of more than one speech. And it is a major test for the Administrations diplomacy, for the U.N.s resolve and for our allies seriousness.  