
            	Senator Biden on Larry King Live
             September 19, 2006 
 KING: With us now in Washington is Senator Joe Biden, the ranking minority member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. He will address the Council on Foreign Relations tomorrow. His topic is Iraq, a way forward, how? What's the way forward, Joe?    SEN. JOSEPH BIDEN (D), DELAWARE: The way forward, Larry, is to make sure that the Sunnis get a piece of the oil action that is that they get guaranteed in the constitution some percentage of the oil revenues and to allow each of the groups to have a little bit of breathing room, allow them to form as their constitution permits federated areas so the Sunni, Shia, and Kurds have their federated areas where they have local control.    Their constitution allows for them to have local police. That way you separate the militia. You move them back into their own areas. And, in addition to that, you have to have the international community get together all the neighbors, including Iran and Turkey and all the areas, the neighbors, to agree on a hands off policy with regard to Iraq.    KING: What, Senator, was your reaction to both speeches today, the speech of the Iranian president and the American president?    BIDEN: Well, the first reaction I had with the Iranian president, as usual he didn't tell the truth. The truth is the IAEA, the very group, I saw a clip on your show here that he said that everybody says this is for peaceful purposes. The International Atomic Energy Commission, which is not dominated by us, said no these guys aren't playing by the rules.    And, the president and the administration have been able to join the Europeans, the Chinese, the Russians, the entire world basically in saying, Look, Iran, you are -- you're not playing by the rules. You're in violation of the rules. That's why we're before the Security Council considering how to sanction you.    So, that's the first piece about him. He wasn't as bellicose as usual, as both your key reporters have pointed out but the fact is he didn't tell the truth as usual. Secondly...    KING: How about the president?       BIDEN: Well, the president I thought did a pretty good job. The two things that impressed me most about the president, one had nothing to do with Iran, it had to do with his call for action on Darfur.    I've been on your show before over the last couple of years, Larry, calling for similar action. He's now appointed a special envoy to pursue stopping the genocide in the region and I thought he was very strong and very correct on that.    I also thought it was very good and skillful the way he talked over the leadership of the Arab countries and talked directly to the people in Iran, directly to the people in Syria. And, I thought that was a very useful thing to do because the truth of the matter is in Iran ironically our biggest ally may very well be the Iranian people who don't have much respect for their government in Tehran and who have a generally good impression of the American people and we should make our case to them as often as we can.    KING: Do you have a question, Anderson, for Joe?       COOPER: Well, actually no but I was actually just listening. I thought...       KING: You were engrossed -- Wolf. That's one of the greatest television moments.       COOPER: I enjoy listening to him actually.       BLITZER: I wonder if, and I keep asking everyone this question and everyone keeps agreeing. Senator, maybe you have a different answer. But, are there any circumstances you could envisage the Iranian regime, this Iranian president, of abandoning a nuclear weapons program? Is there anything the international community could do, short of a military strike, to stop it?    BIDEN: Yes, I do think it's possible, Wolf, and here's how I think it's possible. I think as long as the president keeps and stays within the consensus with the international community time is actually on our side.    I don't believe there is any imminent threat to the United States or to the region in terms of the Iraqis getting fissile material and being able to make a nuclear bomb, imminent meaning within the next six months, year, two years.    They're probably somewhere down the road to a half a decade and a lot can happen in the meantime. You have within Iraq now, as both of you have observed in previous occasions, there is a strain between Ahmadinejad, who represents sort of the revolutionaries of the -- I kind of think of them as a red guard of the '70s in Iran and the clerics.    It's not at all certain that he has a long tenure on life. I don't mean his physical life on control. Secondly, there is a lot that can happen in the next year and a half to two years if the international community stays together.    The biggest thing I'm concerned about is for us to decide that we are going to -- the only thing worse than the U.N. not stepping up to the ball and sanctioning Iran is for us to force a vote on that now and not get sanctions and then give basically a green light to Iran.    KING: I see.       BIDEN: So, I think time may be on our side for at least the next couple years and (INAUDIBLE) change.       KING: We have limited time but Anderson has thought it over and has a question.       COOPER: I'm curious to know about Afghanistan, what you think. I mean Pervez Musharraf, the president of Pakistan, has now signed a ceasefire deal with Taliban militants in North Waziristan (ph). Every intelligence official I've talked to, every military official I went on patrol with over there is concerned about what that really means. Can we win in Afghanistan if we can't go into Pakistan and if the Pakistan government isn't pursuing these people?    BIDEN: The answer is it's very difficult to see how we do that and we're paying a terrible price for the mistakes we made over the last four years. Anderson, it seems to me that the place we should be pushing for more force is the place where we should be trying to rally NATO is more forces in Afghanistan.    Look, you and I and others have talked about this over the last two years. It's pretty clear to me that Musharraf decided that we weren't likely to be able to prevail in the way that he hoped we would in Pakistan, so he -- I mean in Afghanistan.    So he started to cut his own deal as a lot of us already predicted he would. And so I think we're in real trouble there. I think that is a greater fault line for our long term security than any other place right now.    KING: Thanks, Senator, as always, Senator Joe Biden of Delaware.       BIDEN: Thank you.      