
            	BIDEN Reintroduces Amendment to Increase Funding for MRAP Vehicles
             September 19, 2007 
 Washington, DC - Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee Joseph R. Biden, Jr. (D-DE) has reintroduced legislation which would boost funding for Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP) vehicles by $23.6 billion to allow the Army to replace all of its up-armored humvees with MRAPs. It also adds $1 billion to meet the increase in costs for existing Military orders for MRAPs and provides $400 million for better protection against Explosively Formed Penetrators, or EFPs.     "We have no higher obligation than to protect those we send to the front lines," said Senator Biden. "So when our commanders in the field tell us that MRAPs will reduce casualties by sixty-seven to eighty percent, it is our responsibility to provide them."   The bipartisan amendment, co-sponsored by Senators Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Robert Casey (D-PA), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Bernie Sanders (I-VT) and Senator Blanche Lincoln (D-AR), acts on the stated requests of commanders on the ground in Iraq. Lt. General Ray Odierno, lead commander in Iraq, said earlier this year that he wants to replace every Army up-armored humvee in Iraq with an MRAP.  Yet, the Pentagon has taken its time to study this issue and just recently agreed to increase the Army's requirement to 10,000, a little more than half of the approximately 18,000 vehicles he requested.       "I disagree with the President's strategy in Iraq." added Senator Biden. "But while we argue in Washington about the best course of action, our troops on the ground face Improvised Explosive Devices, Rocket Propelled Grenades, Explosively Formed Penetrators, sniper fire, and suicide bombers every day. As long as a single American soldier's life is on the line in Iraq, we have a moral obligation to provide the best protection we possibly canand we must."   Sen. Biden has been leading the effort to get more Mine Resistant Vehicles on the ground in Iraq as soon as possible.  His amendment to the Senate's FY 2007 Supplemental Appropriations Bill (March 28, 2007) accelerated MRAP funding by adding $1.5 billion to the emergency spending bill.   As a result, the military gained the ability to deploy 2,500 more MRAPs six-months sooner than planned. In addition, Sen. Biden has repeatedly called on the Administration to make the construction and deployment of MRAP's and EFP protection a national priority and to investigate the military's failure to field this technology sooner. 