
            	Biden Issues Statement on Reports of British Troop Pull-Out
             February 20, 2007 
 WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Senator Joseph R. Biden, Jr. (D-DE), Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee issued the following statement in response to news reports that British Prime Minister Tony Blair will announce on Wednesday a new timetable for the withdrawal of British troops from Iraq: President Bush should follow Prime Minister Blair's example and start to draw down our troops from Iraq, not send more into the middle of a civil war.  But while leaving Iraq is necessary, it doesn't answer the critical question:  what next?  We need a plan for what we leave behind so that our interests are protected. The heart of that plan must be a political settlement, one that gives Iraq's warring factions a way to share power peacefully and offers us a chance to leave with our interests intact. That's exactly what the plan Leslie Gelb and I have proposed would accomplish. ###  In a speech before the Brookings Institution in Washington, DC on Thursday, February 15, 2007, Sen. Biden advocated revisiting the original 2002 Iraq War resolution because the Congress gave President Bush the authority in 2002 to destroy Iraq's weapons of mass destruction and, if necessary, to depose Saddam Hussein. Because the WMD were not there and Saddam Hussein is no longer there, Sen. Biden believes that the 2002 authorization is no longer relevant to the situation in Iraq.  He is currently working on legislation to repeal that authorization and replace it with a much narrower mission statement for our troops in Iraq.  In addition, Sen. Biden and Council on Foreign Relations President Emeritus Leslie H. Gelb laid out a detailed five-point plan for Iraq on May 1, 2006.  Since that time, the Biden-Gelb plan has sparked much intellectual debate - from left, right and center.   The plan is a chance to achieve the objective most Americans share:  to leave Iraq without leaving chaos behind.   After a month of hearings in the Senate Foreign Relations Committee examining different options for Iraq and with the release of the National Intelligence Estimate on Iraq last week, the Biden-Gelb plan has emerged as a clear path forward.   The Biden-Gelb Five-Point Plan for Iraq:  1)  Maintain a unified Iraq by decentralizing it and giving Kurds, Shiites and Sunnis breathing room in their own regions. The Iraqi constitution already provides for federalism. The central government would be responsible for common interests, like border security and the distribution of oil revenues.  2)  Secure support from the Sunnis - who have no oil -- by guaranteeing them a proportionate share (about 20 percent) of oil revenues, allowing former Baathists to go back to work and re-integrating those with no blood on their hands.   3)  Increase economic aid, asking oil-rich Arab Gulf states to fund it, tie assistance to the protection of minority rights and create a jobs program to deny the militia new recruits.  4) Convene a regional conference to enlist the support of Iraq's neighbors and create a Contact Group of the major powers to enforce their commitments. 5) Ask our military for a plan to responsibly withdraw most U.S. forces from Iraq by 2008 - enough time for the political settlement to take hold - while refocusing the mission of a small residual force on counter-terrorism and training Iraqis.  