
            	BIDEN RECEIVES PRAISE FOR PAKISTAN PROPOSAL FROM PAKISTAN'S EDITORIAL PAGES
             November 20, 2007 
 On November 3, 2007, Pakistan's President Pervez Musharraf declared a state of emergency and suspended the constitution in Pakistan, alarming not only the Pakistani people, but also political leaders in the United States and around the world. Since that time, Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee Joseph R. Biden, Jr. (D-DE) has been an outspoken critic of both President Musharraf's decision and the transactional relationship between the United States and Pakistan.  He has proposed a new U.S. approach to Pakistan, one that is optimistic rather than pessimistic and one that will help "build a new relationship with the Pakistani people, with more non-military aid, sustained over a long period of time, so that the moderate majority in Pakistan has a chance to succeed."   Sen. Biden's vision for a new U.S. approach to Pakistan has clearly resonated not only with public officials, but also the people of Pakistan:   The Pakistan Observer Senator Biden's statesmanlike suggestion  Editorial November 14, 2007   IN a landmark statement full of insights into perceptions and aspirations of the people of Pakistan, US Senator Joseph R Biden, has suggested durable US engagement with Pakistan providing an increase of $1.5 billion in annual aid as democracy dividend' over and above current security assistance for at least a decade. Recognizing that Pakistan has strong democratic traditions and a large, moderate majority,' Biden rightly emphasized that this majority must have a voice in the system and an outlet with elections.'     Senator Biden steered clear of naming any favourite politician but urged instead that US must engage the Pakistani people, not just their rulers.' Not only does he explicitly differ with Bush administration's Musharraf-centric policy, he is implicitly against Washington's blatant support for Benazir Bhuto. He is evidently well-informed about the miscarriage of democracy in the 1990s when the elected rulers exploited personal power for patronage to family and friends bringing Pakistan to the brink of bankruptcy. Objective observers would share the Senator's view that Pakistan becoming a failed state would be a nightmare' for the world. Of course no other people would be worse affected than the citizens who are already victims of consequences of corruption and poor governance that prevailed in the 1990s. Slow development of economy and its failure to provide productive lives to an ever-increasing absolute number of poor in our exploding population has bred extremism and violence in the society. Biden's emphasis on using US aid for education and high-impact development projects to alleviate poverty is entirely in line with the lessons of social sciences. The increase in assistance Biden has proposed, amounting to $1.5 billion a year, appears large but only in comparison with the present annual figure of $600 million for economic and military aid - the other amount of $90 million a month is for expenditures incurred on cooperation with US forces on the Afghan border. In contrast the US expenditure on its forces in Afghanistan is at least ten timers greater. Moreover, the additional economic assistance would add to Pakistan's own substantial allocations for education and poverty reduction programmes which are the key to addressing root causes of extremism.     Pakistan's Dawn Rethinking in Washington Editorial November 10, 2007 [Excerpt] THE influential chairman of the US Senate's foreign relations committee, Senator Joseph Biden, has joined the State Department and the White House in focusing attention on post-emergency rule events in Pakistan. The senator has spoken eloquently on the need for the US to strengthen democracy in a country where, with the benefit of hindsight, an increasing number of Pakistanis see the US with scepticism and suspicion. He has recommended up to $1.5bn per annum over a decade in additional aid to Islamabad aimed at developing the social sector. The resolve to make these allocations accountable so that funds are not diverted to military use comes built into the proposed formula.Senator Biden believes that his proposals will help eschew the negative image in the public mind of a US seen eager to do business with autocratic rulers in the past, and thereby showing disregard for democratic aspirations of a vast majority of moderate Pakistanis. Here is a Muslim state armed with nuclear weapons where extremism of the Taliban-Al Qaeda variety is growing, and which is being run by an unpopular, if liberal, ruling clique that oscillates between autocratic and quasi-democratic rule: the recipe, in the senator's words, for a failed state'. To avoid that fate, Mr Biden has pressed on the US administration the need to have a proactive people-centred policy, as opposed to a policy concentrated on one man'. He also hit the nail on the head when he termed his country's Islamabad policy as transactional', whereby Pakistan is paid for delivering certain services' when so required. He recommended that the US opt for a longer-term engagement with Islamabad.    ###   Details of Sen. Biden's proposal for a new U.S. approach to Pakistan are available here. 