
            	Senate Approves $3 Billion To Bolster Defenses Against Avian Flu
             October 20, 2005 
 Washington, DC  The U.S. Senate recently approved an initiative cosponsored by Tom Harkin (D-IA) and Senator Joe Biden (D-DE) to spend over $3 billion on a stockpile of anti-viral medications to bolster national defenses against a potential pandemic of avian flu. The amendment, which was attached to a military funding bill, also calls for spending $125 million to increase domestic production of an avian flu vaccine. In addition, it provides $33 million for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to monitor avian flu in Asis and around the globe.   I am pleased to support and cosponsor Senator Harkin's amendment aimed at enhancing our capability to combat an avian flu pandemic, said Senator Biden, the top Democrat on the Foreign Relations Committee. This amendment provides absolutely crucial funding for key items that will clearly be needed to fight off this menace: a substantial stockpile of the only antiviral medication effective against H5N1 flu; expansion of the ability of our state and local public health departments, which are the first line of defense against flu, to meet the threat; increased global surveillance for dangerous pathogens to pick up the first signs of a spreading epidemic; improving our country's infrastructure for vaccine manufacture, which is sorely deficient; and money for communication and outreach, so we can have everybody prepared and on the same page.   The H5N1 avian influenza virus has killed or forced the destruction of tens of millions of birds and infected more than 100 people, killing at least 65 in four Asian nations since late 2003. The avian flu virus is currently spreading throughout Asia, carried by migratory waterfowl with a worldwide reach. The virus is continuously changing and adapting, heading toward the human-to-human transmission capability that could trigger a pandemic.   This virus could pose a serious threat to our nation, said Biden. Fortunately, we have a good idea of the measures we need to take to mitigate the impact of avian flu. But these measures cost money and have a significant lag time before they can be put in place. Many of these measures require resources only available in foreign countries. We don't know how much time we have got, and we have got to get moving on this right now.   Public health experts have warned that humans have no natural immunity to the H5N1 avian influenza virus. The CDC has projected that if widespread human-to-human transmission occurs in the United States it could kill as many as 200,000 people.   Biden pressed for urgent action, concluding: The responsible, prudent move is to act now, to start putting in place the countermeasures that we know will work if implemented in time. The old philosopher who said that an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure may not have known anything about RNA viruses, but that advice would seem quite applicable to our current situation.   The legislation must now be approved by the House of Representatives.  