
            	University of Delaware to Take on Two Innovative International Studies Programs
             May 21, 2007 
 WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Senator Joe Biden (D-DE), Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, today announced more than $600,000 in federal funding for two innovative international studies programs at the University of Delaware.  The grants are part of the State Department's efforts to increase the number of American students learning critical needs languages as well as broadening the understanding of American culture and ideals among future leaders of foreign nations.  One project, the National Security Language Initiative (NSLI), will send 24 high school students to China this summer as part of a program to increase the number of Americans learning critical needs foreign languages.The second, the Middle Eastern Partnership Initiative (MEPI) Study of the United States Institute for Student Leaders, brings students from the Middle East and North Africa to study at the University.   In today's world it is essential to our national security that we understand and respect other cultures, and engage in a dialogue that promotes our shared values, said Senator Biden. Whether it's by helping future foreign leaders to learn about our society or by sending our brightest young minds abroad, it's vital that we help train the next generation of leaders so they can interact seamlessly with each other down the road. We must make a serious investment now to ensure our nation's security and stature in the future.  The NSLI will be implemented by the Governor's School for Excellence and includes home stays with Chinese families in Shanghai or Beijing. It will also feature educational excursions to educate the students on Chinese culture and society. The program is part of the National Security Language Initiative, designed by the U.S. State Department to increase the number of Americans learning critical needs foreign languages such as Arabic, Chinese, Russian, and Hindi.  The MEPI Study brings second and third year undergraduate students from the Middle East and North Africa to the United States. The main goals are to empower the students to become leaders in their home countries and to expose them to modern American life. This is the third time UD has been selected for the MEPI study; it has already hosted 40 students from 16 countries.  The funding - $217,205 for NSLI and $390,708 for MEPI - comes from the Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs in the State Department. 