
            	Senator Biden Commended for 100% Voting Record by Leading Children's Advocacy Group
             March 21, 2007 
 WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Senator Joseph R. Biden received accolades from the Children's Defense Fund (CDF)a leading national children's advocacy groupfor his 100% voting record on protecting the health and well-being of children.  Senator Biden's perfect score was based on votes he cast on 10 key issues of particular importance to children, including: increasing educational and healthcare funding for children, raising the minimum wage to help keep families out of poverty, expanding the Head Start program, and providing additional assistance to poor families for home heating costs.  I am honored by this recognition, said Senator Biden. My votes on these issues are consistent with my long-held priority to protect our nation's children by improving public education, providing access to affordable health care and keeping families out of poverty. In a country such as ours, I find it unconscionable that as many as 9 million children are still uninsured and more than 13 million are living in poverty. We in Congress must do more to ensure bright futures for all of our nation's children.    CDF President Marian Wright Edelman noted, I applaud Senator Biden for his commitment to improving the lives of children in Delaware. While the rest of Congress found time to give tax breaks to powerful special interests and the wealthiest Americans, Senator Biden instead voted to make the health and well-being of children in Delaware the priority. Senator Biden is a dedicated advocate for children and has truly earned the distinction of being one of the best Senators for children.  Founded in 1973, the Children's Defense Fund is a national non-profit organization dedicated to children's advocacy, with particular emphasis on protecting disadvantaged and vulnerable children.   Full results of the 2006 Children's Defense Fund Congressional Scorecard may be viewed at: www.cdfactioncouncil.org. 