
            	BIDEN Issues Statement on Saudi Rape Case
             November 21, 2007 
 Washington, DC - Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee Joseph R. Biden, Jr. (D-DE) issued the following statement today:   "I'm outraged by the decision of a Saudi Arabian court to punish the victim of a brutal gang-rape.  Rather than overturning the original sentence of 90 lashes for the victim, the court increased her penalty to 200 lashes and 6 months imprisonment, and said that it did so to penalize the victim for speaking to the media.  The Saudi judiciary is attempting to silence not only this victim, but to prevent future rape victims from coming forward.   This decision is an affront to basic human decency and an egregious violation of the victim's human rights.     "I call on King Abdullah to exercise his powers and overturn this sentence if the Saudi courts do not reverse their decision immediately.   I also would urge him to undertake reforms to prevent similar miscarriages of justice in the future.  I hope that President Bush made this same appeal directly to the King when he spoke with him yesterday.  If he did not, I urge him to do so now.   "This decision is a startling reminder that around the globe women and girls are subjected to brutal violence and too often are victimized a second time for coming forward.  Here in the U.S., we've seen a sea change in societal attitudes and the judicial system towards the crime of rape.  Similar reform is necessary internationally.     "The Biden-Lugar International Violence Against Women Act, introduced last month, mandates an international strategy to tackle gender-based violence and provides support for community-based programs to reform laws, change social norms, provide services and give women greater economic and educational opportunities.   "The Saudi case is a reminder that we can't sit on the sidelines. Violence against women is wrong.  It cannot be excused or justified or ignored.  In some places, it remains an engrained social norm, but one that we can dismantle over time with determination and sustained political will.  The International Violence Against Women Act is the first step."  