
            	U.S. House and Senate Clear Defense Spending Measure
             December 22, 2005 
 WASHINGTON (Dec. 22, 2005)  Delaware businesses and universities would receive nearly $48 million in specific defense-related projects and activities under the fiscal 2006 defense spending bill, which passed the Senate on Wednesday night and is now headed to the presidents desk for his signature.   In addition to securing more than $48 million for Delaware-specific projects, the states congressional delegation  Sens. Joe Biden, Tom Carper and Congressman Mike Castle  also fought hard to increase defense programs that directly benefit Dover Air Force Base and the New Castle County Air Guard.   The bill includes a 3.1 percent across-the-board pay increase for military and guard personnel, as well as a $22 million increase over the presidents original request for C-5 modernization so that the planes can meet todays airlift needs; a $7.5 million increase for C-130 radars to assist the Air National Guard in providing precise navigational fixes for aerial cargo drops in missions such as Iraq; a $105 million increase for additional MedEvac HH-60Ls and UH-60s Blackhawk helicopters for the Army; and a $14 million increase for basic Army Guard Base operations. Delaware projects in the bill total just over $48 million and include:    $6 million for ANP Technologies, a Newark based biotechnology firm, to produce a handheld device capable of detecting and identifying multiple biological threats in the field.    $3.75 million for Micropore, a Newark plastics company, to improve their ability to produce reactive plastic carbon dioxide absorbents used to filter carbon dioxide in submarines and Navy SEAL diving equipment.    $3.75 million for Newarks Quantum Leap Innovations to create a system for the Navy that can dynamically analyze threats and integrate all of the information needed to effectively respond to biological attacks on ships and in the state.  $3.5 million for Fraunhofer USA to develop new, safer, and less expensive plant-based vaccines for anthrax and other biological threats.  $16 million for the University of Delaware -- $2 million for the completion of a new Navy research vessel; $10.4 million for the Center for Advanced Composite Materials which is working on making lighter and stronger armor and material for Army and Navy vehicles and ships; and $3.6 million for UDs Active/Passive Millimeter Wave Imaging Program.    $9.9 million for W.L. Gore broken down as follows: $5.6 million for the Marine Corps to field the All Purpose Environmental Clothing System; $1.4 million for Army Reserves to field the Extended Cold Weather Clothing System (ECWCS); $1.4 million the Army Guard to field ECWCS; and $1.5 million for Marine Corps ECWS.    $3 million for the Vaccine Health Care Centers to ensure that military personnel needing specialized care following mandatory vaccines have access to it.    $2.2 million for 166 th Information Operations Unit of the Delaware Air National Guard to continue its work using technology to fight terror and to protect defense assets.   The key to the success of our military is the amazing professional men and women who serve and the continued support of their families. The least we can do is give them what they need to do their jobs and have earned. This bill provides the equipment and resources needed so we can continue to be the world's greatest fighting force, said Biden. It also looks to the future, by funding innovative and useful research. It is exciting to see how relevant Delaware's contributions are to the warfight today and what advantages they promise our soldiers, sailors, airmen, and marines in the future.   The defense bill highlights Delawares strategic, scientific and technological importance at a time when the nation is facing continued security threats here at home and abroad, said Senator Carper. The funds for C-5 modernization will strengthen our militarys strategic airlift capacity, while other funds in the bill will help clothe and protect our troops  not only against military threats but also bio-terrorism and other dangers.   Our military men and women are voluntarily putting their lives on the line to secure peace and freedom throughout the world. It is our duty to pledge our unwavering support for their missions at home and abroad, said Congressman Castle. This important funding will help modernize weaponry and bases; provide a much deserved pay raise for military personnel; continue homeland defense operations; ensure military readiness.   