
            	Biden Pushes for Creation of Homeland Security Trust Fund
             January 22, 2007 
 Washington, DC-U.S. Senator Joseph R. Biden, Jr. (D-DE)introduced the Homeland Security Act of 2007 today.  This legislation would create a specified pot of money  a trust fund  that would fund the implementation of all the 9/11 Commission recommendations, invest in local law enforcement, and make other critical homeland security upgrades.   To protect our homeland, we have to radically reorder our priorities, Sen. Biden said. We should start by immediately implementing the recommendations made by the 9/11 Commission. In December 2005, the Commission assessed the Administrations progress in implementing their recommendations, and they got a report card riddled with Ds and Fs. Just 5 percent of cargo containers are adequately scanned at our ports, and we dont scan air cargo. Our first responders still cannot talk to one another. In my opinion, this is totally unacceptable.   Sen. Biden continued, The legislation I am offering today will ensure that we can make critical homeland security upgrades in a fiscally responsible manner. By taking back just some of the tax cuts promised to the wealthiest Americans, we could set aside $53.3 billion dollars over the next five years dedicated solely to making our homeland more secure.   In 2006 alone, the Bush tax cuts for millionaires exceed $60 billion, whereas the average budget for the Department of Homeland Security is roughly half of that amount -- $34 billion. Senator Bidens legislation would take back some of the tax cuts for people making over $1 million a year in order to put $10 billion a year ($53.3 billion over 5 years) into a Homeland Security Trust Fund. The Trust Fund  to be used exclusively to protect our homeland  would be used to:   -Fully implement the recommendations of the 9/11 Commission; o hire 50,000 new police officers and 1,000 FBI agents; o require 100 percent cargo container scanning at our nations sea ports; o ensure emergency personnel can communicate effectively by freeing up critical spectrum for public safety use and providing interoperable equipment; o enhance research, development and deployment of new screening technology at sea and air ports; and o invest in our public health system to ensure capacity to respond to biological, chemical, radiological attacks or pandemics.   This is all about setting the right priorities for America. Instead of giving a tax cut to the richest Americans who dont need it, we should be focusing on the security of all Americans, Senator Biden said. Our nations most fortunate are just as patriotic as anyone else. They are just as willing to sacrifice for the good of our nation. The problem is that no one has asked them to sacrifice. This legislation is about re-ordering our homeland security priorities, and I look forward to working with my colleagues to see that it is enacted into law.   