
            	Biden on Today's Iraq Amendments
             June 22, 2006 
 WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Senator Joseph R. Biden, Jr. (D-DE) issued the following statement following his vote in favor of the Levin-Reed amendment to the Defense Authorization bill today:   When you read the entire Levin-Reed amendment, you will see it goes well beyond 'phased re-deployment.' It also includes specific things the President and Iraq must do as we begin to redeploy to ensure that we do not trade a dictator for chaos. These points demonstrate that Democrats have a strategy for success in Iraq.   The Administration has no strategy for success - they have a strategy to prevent defeat. At a minimum, there are three things we need to do moving forward: 1) get Sunni buy-in into the political process and keeping Iraq together, including through a fair distribution of resources; 2) purge the security forces of militia and sectarian thugs; and 3) convene an international conference with an enforcement mechanism to get Iraq's neighbors to agree not to interfere in Iraq's internal affairs.   There are other things I would do, such as support de-centralization - which is in the Iraqi constitution - to give each community breathing room in their own region and increase reconstruction assistance, but tying it to the protection of minority rights.   If we do all of these things, we should be able to withdraw most of our troops from Iraq by 2008, leaving a small residual force to train and support Iraqis and prevent terrorism. If we do none of these things, civil war that becomes a regional war is a likely reality. Then, no number of US forces can keep Iraq together. We'll have to get out and try to contain the problem.   Democrats have a plan to begin to leave Iraq, but leave with our interests intact - it is not simply a phased withdrawal. The Administration has no plan. All they are offering is more of the same. Democrats have an end game, Republicans still have an open-ended commitment.   There may be differences among Democrats, but that's a much better place to be than where Republicans are: united behind the President in a failed policy.  