
            	NBC's Today Show
             June 22, 2005 
 This is a partial transcript of NBC's TODAY SHOW from June 22, 2005.   MATT LAUER, NBC ANCHOR: He could be a contender. Democratic Senator Joe Biden from Delaware is making plans to run for president, and on Tuesday, he laid out his foreign policy ideas in what he called a new compact for Iraq.   Senator Biden, good to see you.  Good morning.      U.S. SENATOR JOSEPH BIDEN (D-DE):  Good morning.      LAUER: Before we talk about what is wrong in Iraq -- and you went into pretty good detail on Tuesday -- let's talk about what's right there. Because you've made several trips to Iraq and I think sometimes there's a fear that in the media we don't spend enough time talking about the accomplishments.   What's going right there?      BIDEN: What's going right there is you have all the confessional folks, the Shia, the Kurds, wanting very much to put a government together. You've actually had an election that was a real election; it was consequential. We have really good trainers on the ground now in General Petraeus. We're actually really beginning to train an Iraqi army. We've changed the training regime for the Iraqi police; that's really under way now.   There's a lot of good that's happening. We have really first rate people there. And there's still -- in my view, I still believe we can succeed in Iraq and we must succeed in Iraq.   LAUER: having said that, it's still a very dangerous and violent place. Insurgent attacks have been maintained a consistent level, not only against our military, but against civilians as well.   In your opinion, what is the main reason that the U.S. military has been unable to crush the insurgency?      BIDEN: Not enough troops. Not enough people. And the inability to seal the border with Syria. And having squandered 18 months in a real definite training program for the Iraqi police and the Iraqi military. They're the reasons I think we're behind the curve, in addition to not distributing the money to reconstruct.   LAUER: Let me ask you about troop strength. What are we going to do about that? Let's say you were president today, how would you address the troop strength issue when you consider that already the U.S. military is spread thin and other countries are not adding troops, they're pulling troops out?   BIDEN:  Well, the reason they're pulling troops out is our lack of leadership.      There's a meeting going on today in Europe with European leaders. NATO military commanders actually had a plan for over a year how they could put 3,000 to 5,000 troops in and seal the border with Iraq. I would be doing everything in my power to convince our friends to, in fact, commit those troops to the border; not into the area where the fighting's going on, to the border to seal the border off.   In addition to that, I'd be taking up the French and the Germans and the Egyptians and the Jordanians on their offers to train more Iraqi police and to train more Iraqi military. I would be having them train up an officer corps out of country, in their countries, like we have done in the past in our country with foreign troops.   I would also be changing the way in which we distribute the money. We're out there building a $500 million tertiary sewer treatment plant instead of giving our military guys PVC pipe to put in the back of people's homes, take the sewage out into the Tigris River instead of having two feet of sewage in their front lawns. I would change the way we distribute it.   LAUER: Let ask you a specific question: How many Iraq troops right now do you think have been adequately trained and are prepared to defend their country?   BIDEN: Let me say, adequate, meaning they don't need us? About 2,500. That don't need us; could do the job on their own.   LAUER:  Which is a tiny number compared to what's said to be needed.      BIDEN: Yes. Look, the big problem here, Matt, is this gap between rhetoric and reality. The vice president keeps saying we have 258,000 or 268,000 trained troops.   The American people are losing confidence in our ability to get the job done. And if we lose their confidence, Matt, we're not going to be able to stay and finish the job. It's going to take at least another year. We should level with them and get their support.   LAUER:  Two subjects in 30 seconds.      John Bolton: It could be that President Bush makes him a July 4th recess appointment, taking Congress out of this; allowing him to serve for 18 months as U.N. ambassador. How would you feel about that?   BIDEN:  I think that'd be a mistake but we couldn't stop it.      LAUER:  All right.      And finally, you say you're going to run for president in 2008. You ran in 1998; you didn't win a primary. Why would it be different this time around?   (LAUGHTER)      In particular facing huge fund-raisers like Hillary Clinton and John Kerry?      BIDEN: That's what I've got to figure out. I'm going to do everything I can this year to find out whether or not I have the ability to raise the money to run. If I don't, I'm not running.   It's a formidable obstacle. There's a lot of people doing exactly what I'm doing: about a half a dozen. I'm just telling you what I'm doing; maybe I shouldn't. I think it's very formidable and it's an uphill challenge.   LAUER:  Senator Joe Biden.      Senator, always good to see you.  Thanks for joining us this morning.      BIDEN:  Good to see you.      To visit NBC's Today Show website, go to:   MSNBC.com   