
            	SENATOR BIDEN to Receive Friend of Forensic Sciences Award by the Consortium of Forensic Sciences
             May 22, 2007 
 Washington, DCU.S. Senator Joseph R. Biden, Jr., Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime and Drugs, will receive the Friend of Forensic Science award given by the Consortium of Forensic Sciences (CFSO) today.  The award honors Sen. Biden's contributions to the forensic community and enhancing the criminal justice process.    Forensic science and scientists are critical components of an effective criminal justice system, and I have long supported federal funding for all disciplines in forensic science - including latent prints or fingerprinting, firearms and ballistics, toxicology, DNA and trace evidence, said Senator Biden.  In order to keep our communities safe and to help keep criminals off our streets, our crime labs must be well-equipped, and I will be working closely with my colleagues to ensure Congressional support for all forensic science providers.  Among Sen. Biden's many efforts to secure greater federal funding for public crime laboratories and medical examiner offices, the Justice for All Act (P.L. 108-405), is one of the most important pieces of legislation in Sen. Biden's record.  The 2004 Act works to eliminate the backlog of DNA samples collected from convicted offenders and crime scenes and improves the use of DNA evidence as a crime fighting tool.   Survivors of sexual assault and other violent crimes live in fear when they know their attackers have not been caught.  It's proven that forensic evidence can save lives - it puts criminals behind bars, grants closure to victims and helps exonerate those who are wrongfully convicted, Sen. Biden said.  It is essential that we continue to fund forensic crime fighting techniques.  Formed in 2000, CFSO is an association of six forensic science professional organizations: American Academy of Forensic Sciences; American Society of Crime Laboratory Directors; American Society of Crime Lab Directors - Laboratory Accreditation Board; Forensic Quality Services; International Association for Identification; and National Association of Medical Examiners.  These professional organizations together represent more than 12,000 forensic science professionals across the United States. 