
            	Biden Bill Expands TRICARE Coverage of Colon Cancer Screening
             May 22, 2006 
 Washington, DC  U.S. Senator Joseph R. Biden, Jr. (D-Del) today introduced a bill that would expand the availability of cancer screening tests for the millions of military dependents and retirees covered by the Tricare medical program.   The new legislation requires that Tricare pay for screening colonoscopy to detect intestinal cancer in all average-risk people over 50. This policy would be identical to the criteria for colon cancer screening used by the Medicare program since 2001. The existing Tricare rules authorize colonoscopy to screen for colon cancer only in a very limited group of high-risk patients.   The medical experts tell me that colonoscopy is now the way to go in order to detect colon cancer, Biden said. It just doesnt seem logical to me that we havent been offering our military population the same up-to-date choices for colon cancer screening that our senior citizens and our federal workers, including Senators, have enjoyed for some time.   Colon cancer is very curable when detected and treated early but highly lethal if not found until an advanced stage. In the view of many gastroenterologists, colonoscopy is more thorough and more sensitive in screening for colon cancer than alternative methods. In addition, colonoscopy permits biopsy and removal of abnormal tissue as soon as it is detected, in a single procedure.   This bill doesnt mandate that all colon cancer screening in the Tricare program be done with colonoscopy, only that doctor and patient have that option if they so choose, added Biden. We all recognize that, when it comes to many types of cancer, early detection saves lives. I am absolutely committed to maximizing the use of modern cancer screening techniques for everyone.   The legislation now goes to the Senate Armed Services Committee for initial evaluation, and Senator Biden is optimistic that the bills provisions will be enacted into law, possibly after being incorporated as part of a broader bill, before the end of the year.  