
            	GAO Provides More Details on NRC Investigation of Nuclear Plants
             November 22, 2005 
 WASHINGTON, DC - Today, the Government Accountability Office (GAO) provided Delawares Congressional Delegation with more information regarding the scope of their upcoming investigative study of the nations 103 nuclear power plants. The study was requested by the Delegation in April of 2005, in response to growing concerns about operational, managerial and employee issues at the Hope Creek and Salem I and II nuclear generating facilities in New Jersey.   Specifically, the Delegation requested that the GAO review the Nuclear Regulatory Commissions Reactor Oversight Process (ROP). The ROP has been in place since 2000 and has yet to undergo an independent review of its effectiveness. The GAO study will determine how, and to what extent, the ROP allows the NRC to effectively measure whether the nuclear power plants are operating safely, and what changes, if any, could be implemented to help identify and correct problems more quickly.   Before the GAO officially begins a study, a scoping or design document is drafted which outlines the parameters of the investigation. For this review, in addition to the Delaware Congressional Delegation and other interested members of Congress, the GAO consulted with agencies and organizations that have an interest in the safe operations of nuclear power plants including the Union of Concerned Scientists, Green Peace, and the Nuclear Energy Institute.   The GAO has selected six nuclear generating facilities from across the country to be studied under this review. In addition to the Hope Creek and Salem facility, five others plants will be included. They are: Cooper in Nebraska; Oconee in South Carolina; Perry in Ohio; Surry in Virginia; and Indian Point in New York. These plants were selected based upon geographical and performance diversity.   We are keenly interested in seeing this study proceed, said the Delegation. The safe operation of nuclear power plants across the nation and in our own backyard, continues to be one of our greatest concerns. As our energy needs escalate and we pursue alternative sources, we must be assured that nuclear power can and will be generated in the safest manner possible.     The study will take approximately nine months to complete.  