
            	CNNs American Morning
             November 22, 2005 
 This is a partial transcript from CNNs AMERICAN MORNING from November 22, 2005.   SOLEDAD O'BRIEN, CNN ANCHOR: As the president and lawmakers get ready to head home for the holidays, the war of words over progress, or lack thereof, in Iraq continues without any abatement.   Listen to Congressman Jack Murtha. He was on The Situation Room with Wolf Blitzer yesterday.      (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) U.S. REPRESENTATIVE JACK MURTHA (D-PA): This war cannot be won militarily. We have to turn it over to the Iraqis. The Iraqis let us fight this war forever. I'm convinced the only way it's going to be won is politically.   I said 18 months ago, either mobilize totally or get out.  (END VIDEO CLIP)      O'BRIEN: Democrats, though, don't agree on the strategy.      Joining us this morning from Wilmington, Delaware, is Senator Joe Biden. He is the senior Democrat on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. Nice to see you, Senator. Thanks for talking with us.   U.S. SENATOR JOSEPH BIDEN (D-DE): Good morning, Soledad. Happy to be with you.      O'BRIEN: Thank you.  Do you agree with Jack Murtha?      BIDEN: I can understand Jack's frustration, but I think it would be premature to pull out. The bottom line is Jack thinks this has been screwed up so badly it can't be won. I think if the administration is willing to change course, it can actually still be salvaged during this election period and the vote on a constitution that's coming up in February.   But as 79 senators in the United States Senate said -- Mr. President, we don't think you have a plan. There's a vote of no confidence. Give us a plan. Here's what the elements should be, and we laid it out. We'll see what the president does.   O'BRIEN: Before we get to details of your plan, let's talk some specifics. Give me your timetable for pulling troops out.      BIDEN: Well, the military has indicated they're not going to be able to keep this number -- you interviewed many generals, Soledad, including Barry McCaffrey who points out that unless we completely mobilize the National Guard, unless we put people in for four and five rotations, we cannot maintain 160,000 people in region.   The military and the commanding general said we're going to draw down 50,000 troops next year, and then 100,000 will be dealt with after that. The question is whether we draw them down in the face of winning this effort or we draw them down in the face of losing.   And we have to change strategy in order to draw them down in the face of winning. And that requires, as Jack said, a political solution, and we have to get the rest of the world involved like we did in Afghanistan with the neighbors, the regional powers.   O'BRIEN: But before we walk through the plan, I want to understand -- under your plan, what do you envision? When do the bulk of the troops or a lot of the troops or a significant number of the troops will be out of Iraq?   BIDEN: Well, that's above my pay grade. That's a military decision. I'm just telling you what will happen if we do not change the game plan here.   If we do not get a consensus constitution where the Sunnis buy in to a constitution in February, then you're going to go from a low-grade civil war to a full-blown civil war, and all of the kings horses and all king's men aren't going to keep Iraq together.   So what we need to do is we need a political solution. We need to get the regional powers and the international powers involved like we did in Afghanistan that produced Karzai, so we get the Shia and the Kurds to make some concessions and for the Sunnis to buy in.   Without that kind of settlement, as Jack Murtha says, we're not going to win this militarily, and our military tells us without that they will not win it militarily.   O'BRIEN: So you think, at the end of the day, it's really a political solution, it's not a military solution?      BIDEN: At the end of the day, military is necessary but not sufficient. The president needs a new plan. The president has to stop saying, We're going to stay the course, not one day longer. He has to get a consensus constitution. He has to get the ministries there up and running -- the people that turn those street lights on and off. And he has to continue, finally, as is happening now, to train Iraqi forces and turn over responsibility while dealing with an insurgency along the border. We have six months, Soledad.   O'BRIEN: Of that list, what do you think has been the biggest failure, and maybe the most important failure in the sense of without it we cannot move forward?   BIDEN: Waiting too long to really train them up. You heard the secretary of defense still say we have 210,000 people trained. Not so. 210,000 people in uniform; 25,000 to 35,000 trained. Number two, the failure to get the regional powers, as well as international powers involved to put pressure on the parties they can affect, like we did in Afghanistan, to agree on a consensus constitution. Without that, there is going to be civil war. We have to, in fact, broaden the impact of the other nations on the parties in question.   I'm not the only one calling that for a year and a half or two years. The Secretary of State Kissinger, Shultz, Powell -- they're all saying it.   Why this administration refuses to move is beyond me.      O'BRIEN: Senator Joe Biden of Delaware.  Nice to see you. Thanks for talking with us, Senator.      BIDEN: Thank you.      To visit CNN's American Morning website, go to: CNN.com   