
            	CBS's Early Show
             November 22, 2005 
 This is a partial transcript from CBS's EARLY SHOW from November 22, 2005.   HANNAH STORM, CBS ANCHOR: As we said, the debate over whether or not to withdraw American troops from Iraq continues to wage in Washington. Senator Joe Biden of Delaware jumped into the fray in a speech on Monday. Good morning, Senator.   SPEAKERS: U.S. SENATOR JOSEPH BIDEN (D-DE): Good morning. How are you, Hannah?      STORM: Doing just fine, thanks.      I want to ask you about Vice President Cheney's comments that we just heard, as he accused critiques of prewar intelligence of engaging in, quote, revisionism of the most corrupt and shameless variety.   As someone who voted for the war back in 2002 and has since been critical of the administration, how do you respond to his comments?   BIDEN: First of all, no one but Vice President Cheney indicated that Saddam Hussein had nuclear weapons. He said that flat out. At the time he said it, I and many others said, That's not true. No one else said that there was a direct connection between Osama bin Laden and Saddam Hussein, implying that there was something having to do with 9/11. That we respected overall.   And the fact of the matter is that the vice president and the administration took the portion of the evidence that was questionable and offered it as if it were fact and, I believe, hyped the rationale to go to war.   There was no imminent danger when we went to war, when we gave the president the authority to use force. It was, in light of his words, saying war is neither imminent nor inevitable. And I think they've mishandled it very badly. But we've got to fix it now.   STORM: Senator, a lot of American citizens are looking at what's happening on Capitol Hill -- all the shouting, all the name-calling. No one can remember in recent history things being this bad. And members of Congress on both sides have been criticized for politicizing this issue. If you guys keep screaming at each other, how is the situation going to get resolved?   BIDEN: Well, the truth is, no one in the Senate has screamed at one another. Seventy-nine senators, led by a Republican, conservative chairman of the Armed Services Committee, said, Mr. President, we don't believe you have a plan to win in Iraq. Give us detail, Mr. President, how you're going to proceed from here.   It was an overwhelming bipartisan vote of no confidence taken in the Senate, saying, Mr. President, don't tell us, 'Stay the course.' Not one day longer. Tell us how you're going to get a political solution. Tell us how you're going to get these folks home, as well as preserve our interest, which is making sure that it does not become a haven for terror, and it's a stable nation when we leave. A vote of no confidence, overwhelming, no shouting, 79 senators.   STORM: All right. You outlined this plan yesterday to withdraw troops over the next two years, beginning with 50,000 troops in '06. Why this timetable as opposed to immediate withdrawal, as proposed by Representative Murtha?   BIDEN: I think immediate withdrawal would be a serious mistake. We have an election coming up in December. There will be a vote on, hopefully, a consensus constitution some time in the beginning of the year, early spring.   The administration, though, has to get engaged. It has to get the rest of the international community engaged, just like we did in Afghanistan. We went out there and we had a conference in Bonn. We brought in the Russians, we brought in the Iranians, we brought in the Pakistanis. We ended up with a guy named Karzai.   Unless there's a consensus constitution that the Sunnis buy in to, there will be a civil war. If there's a full-blown civil war, all the king's horses and all the king's men will not be able to keep Iraq together.   STORM: Let me ask you about General Motors -- shifting gears a little bit here...      BIDEN: Sure.      STORM: ...they announced 30,000 job cuts, 12 facilities closing in 2008 because of poor sales and rising health care costs. How much does this concern you? What are the implications for other U.S. industries here?   BIDEN: Well, it's gigantic, and it says two things: One, we're at a competitive disadvantage, and we have no national health care program in this country. All those countries we're competing with have it. Here we have an employer-based health system, putting every General Motors car that's sold competitively at a 14 percent disadvantage -- number one.   And number two, the automobile industry in America has been unwilling to make the kind of changes that needs to be changed, that needs to take place to deal with the cost of oil, with the competitive pricing on oil, and the ability to build hybrids and move to alternative automobiles.   This is very poor management. It's not the laborer's fault.      STORM: And very quickly, Senator, what can you say to these communities devastated by this?      BIDEN: What I can say is that, pray God, this will be a wake-up call to the industry to help support the call for national health care proposal, as well as begin to make products that in fact are consistent with the environment today, that is, the economic environment we're in.   In the meantime, we've got to go in there and make sure we provide a cushion for these people losing their jobs. I just heard how the economy is growing. Where I come from, middle class is not growing. That's how I measure growth: Are middle-class people growing? They're not.   STORM: All right, we're going to have to leave it at that. Senator Joseph Biden.      BIDEN: Thank you.      STORM: ...thanks for you time this morning.      To visit CBS Early Show website, go to: CBSNews.com   