
            	Biden Fights to Restore PBS Funding
             June 23, 2005 
 WASHINGTON, DC - In a strong appeal to Senate Appropriators, U.S. Senator Joseph R. Biden, Jr., (D-DE) called on his colleagues to restore vital funding from deep cuts to the Corporation for Public Broadcastings (CPB) budget, potentially effecting Public Broadcasting Systems (PBS) educational programs like the award-winning show, Sesame Street.   At a time when so many parents complain about the negative messages our media sends to children, it is perplexing that members of Congress would eliminate one of the only programs that provides educational content through the media, wrote Senator Biden along with a bipartisan group of Senators.   The Senators took the action after the House Appropriations Committee cut the Corporations budget by 25 percent from $400 million to $300 million last week. The bill also eliminated the $23 million allocation for the Ready to Learn program, the $39 million fund to allow PBS stations to convert to digital programming, and the $50 million meant to upgrade the satellite technology that is essential to PBS operations.   The letter continues, As parents are increasingly anxious about the negative messages their children receive from the media, these television programs represent the only safe harbor for many parents. Shows like Sesame Street and Dragon Tales, which receive essential support from the Corporation for Public Broadcasting, have been helping children learn critical thinking and social skills for decades. These shows are a fun, engaging and valuable part of millions of childrens daily lives. Parents feel confident exposing their children to these shows because they are safe, free of violence, and designed to stimulate childrens rapidly developing brains.   The Corporation for Public Broadcasting and Ready to Learn make some of the healthiest and most valuable programming available to our children. We sincerely hope that you will do all you can to strengthen these critical programs.   In a related effort earlier this week, Senator Biden joined a group of Democratic Senators in calling on President Bush to remove the chairman of the Board of Public Broadcasting, Kenneth Tomlinson for undermining, under-funding and ultimately undoing the mission of the CPB  a non-profit agency Congress created in 1967 to ensure access to quality education programs.   In addition to charges that Mr. Tomlinson failed to defend the agency against deep budget cuts, the Senators believe that, as chairman, he has manipulated information and undermined the credibility of the impartial, non-partisan agency.   Mr. Tomlinson hid polls from the public that showed public support for PBS in the stratosphere  80 percent of Americans believe that public television is fair and balanced. He has taken a political agenda into his Chairmans office, suggesting that PBS is not balanced; spending unnecessary funds to investigate individual news programs for bias; adjusting programming to cut news programs because of perceived bias; and hiring an expensive lobbyist to strategize about how to encourage Senators to oppose a bill that would have allowed individual television stations to have more representation on the Board of the CPB.   Later this summer, the Senate is expected to begin work on the FY2006 Labor, Health and Human Services and Education appropriations bill, legislation which funds the Corporation for Public Broadcasting. The White House has not yet responded to the letter calling for the removal of Mr. Tomlinson.  