
            	Biden Amendment Secures Senate Support for Full Payment of US Dues to UN Peacekeeping Operations
             June 23, 2006 
 Washington, DC  The U.S. Senate today adopted an amendment offered by Senator Joseph Biden (D-DE) allowing the United States to fully pay its dues to UN Peacekeeping missions.   The amendment to the DoD Authorization Bill, which passed the Senate last night, will stop the creation of further arrears at the United Nations by increasing the cap at which the United States pays dues to the UN. Currently, U.S. payments for peacekeeping are capped at 25 percent of the UNs peacekeeping budget, below the 27 percent rate assessed by the UN, resulting in unpaid bills each month.   At a time when UN peacekeeping operations around the world are having a positive effect on countless lives  from Haiti to Democratic Republic of the Congo, to Kosovo -- we must not shortchange these critical missions, Biden said. And how can we push a UN mission for Darfur with one hand, while undercutting the peacekeeping budget with the other?   The UN blue helmets are literally on the front lines in the worlds worst conflicts. From protecting civilians, to monitoring cease-fires, to clearing mine fields and disarming combatants, they tackle impossible issues every day, and they need our support. Through UN peacekeeping, the U.S. contributes to international peace and stability where we have critical foreign policy interests, while sharing the human, political and financial costs with other nations. This amendment allows us to pay our bills in full.   Furthermore, at a time when we are pressuring for important management and budget reforms in the UN Secretariat, it would be a mistake for us to continue to fall short on our peacekeeping dues. As we are pushing the UN to get its financial house in order, we should certainly not fall deeper into arrears on our obligations, Biden added.   According to the U.S. State Department, as of January 2006, the United States is approximately $48 million in arrears due to the 25 percent cap.  