
            	Senate Passes McConnell-Biden Bill to Isolate Hamas
             June 23, 2006 
 Washington, DC  The United States Senate passed today the Palestinian Anti-Terrorism Act of 2006, a bill designed to isolate the Hamas-led Palestinian Authority. The bill prevents any US assistance to the Hamas-led government unless it meets three conditions established by the international community: acknowledging Israels right to exist, renouncing violence, and accepting past peace agreements with Israel.    The bill includes important exceptions for aid to the Palestinian people, independent agencies not controlled by Hamas, and for the President of the Palestinian Authority, Mahmoud Abbas. It also includes a provision sponsored by Senator Biden to create a $20 million Peace, Reconciliation, and Democracy Fund to promote Palestinian democracy and peace between Israelis and Palestinians.    None of us want to see a penny of American taxpayer money going to a Hamas-led government that refuses to meet the basic demands not just of the United States, but of the international community, Biden said. While our intention is to pressure Hamas to accept the same terms that bound previous Palestinian governments, it is not in the interest of either the United States or Israel to be seen as punishing the Palestinian people. It is critically important that in pressuring Hamas we make it clear to the Palestinian people that it is Hamas that is failing them, not the international community.    That is why our bill allows for assistance to continue to support the basic needs of the Palestinian people. It permits assistance for things such as food, water, health, medicine, and sanitation, as well as for democracy promotion, human rights, and education.    It also recognizes the important distinction between Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas  who has committed to the Road Map and a negotiated two-state solution  and Hamas, by incorporating exemptions to support Abbas in fulfilling his duties as President.    Hamas must choose between bullets and ballots, between destructive terror and constructive governance. It cannot have it both ways. The legislation passed by the Senate is an attempt to clarify the choices for Hamas and to make clear our rejection of a group that is committed to terror.  