
            	Senator Biden is Interviewed on CBS Early Show
             October 23, 2006 
 Harry SMITH: Top Democrats in Washington, including Delaware Senator Joe Biden, say major changes in strategy in Iraq are long overdue. And Senator Biden joins us this morning.   Good morning, sir.      BIDEN:  Harry, how are you?      SMITH:  Not hearing a lot new from Dan Bartlett this morning.      (LAUGHTER)      Can I cut to the chase here for a second?      BIDEN:  Please, yes.      SMITH: We know that the cops in Baghdad and all of Iraq are dirty. They're filed with the Mahdi Army. The army is not so bad, that is when they show up. How do we communicate to Maliki -- who I know you're not a fan of -- is that they've got to come up to the plate and get the job done, or maybe we ought to get out?   BIDEN: You say to Maliki, look, you get a political settlement here. You give the Sunnis a piece of the oil so they will stop their insurgency. You, in fact, purge the police of the...   SMITH:  Mahdi Army.      BIDEN: ... of the rebels -- of the Mahdi Army, as well as others -- and you get the neighbors -- the president of the United States has to call all the neighbors of Iraq in to say, We're going to agree on this political solution, and stay out, and you got to get to it.   I was amazed by Dan Bartlett comment that we have always be flexible. They still talk about this being a war against terrorists. It's a civil war. They still talk about as soon as the Iraqis stand up their army, we'll stand down. They've got 450,000 people stood up, Harry, and we can't stand down because they can't stand together.   This needs a radical change, Harry.      SMITH: Well, here's the question: You have been there many times, is there really anything the United States can do to stem the violence in Iraq?   BIDEN:  Absolutely.  It can say, We want a political  settlement.      Last time I said that, the president said we can't tell the Iraqis what to do. Like heck we can't tell the Iraqis what to do. It's our blood and treasure. We told them what to do when they wrote their constitution. We told them what provisions had to be in the constitution. We should tell them straight up now, Get a political settlement or you're on your own, Jack.   SMITH: A lot of people have been writing, in the last couple of weeks, including Leslie Gelb in Time last week, Why not leave? Is that a viable choice?   BIDEN: It may be the only Hobson's choice. You and I discussed this before, Harry. A year ago I predicted that the failed policy of this administration and their stubborn adherence to it and their arrogance related to it may put us in a position, at the end of the day, where it's a bridge too far, where our choices are leave our forces there to be killed and our treasure squandered, or to keep something worse from happening, or leave and have something bad happen.   The fact of the matter is, we're approaching that point quickly unless we -- I have a whole plan on what -- it's called planforIraq.com; laid out in detail, been debated by a lot of people the last six months.   Unless we doing in like laid out in that plan (inaudible) not unique to me -- unless we do something like that, Harry, we're going to end up in a situation where the American people will not tolerate -- will not tolerate -- a continuation of 140,000 American troops and close to $1 trillion over time being poured down a rat hole because, in fact, we're in the middle of a civil war.   SMITH:  All right.  Senator Joe Biden, we thank you for you time  this morning.  Do appreciate it.      BIDEN:  Thank you, Harry.      SMITH:  You bet.  Take care.      END  