
            	Nation Ignoring Chemical Attack Threat
             April 24, 2007 
 Tampa TribuneNation Ignoring Chemical Attack Threat By Sen. Joseph BidenApril 24, 2007 Over the last few months, chlorine gas has been used to kill and injure hundreds of Iraqis. According to defense experts, these chemical attacks are intended to bring a "new level of fear and havoc" for Iraqi citizens and unfortunately represent a normal "evolution of sophistication" in attacks. Unless we make significant changes to chemical security here at home, we risk being attacked with these same methods. The dangers of chlorine gas are well-known. Chlorine was used as a chemical weapon during World War II, and recent studies have found that an attack on one 90-ton rail tanker filled with chlorine could create a toxic cloud that extends up to 10 miles potentially killing or injuring up to 100,000 individuals in an urban area. Nevertheless, we are basically ignoring these threats. Rail companies continually route 90-ton rail tankers over unprotected tracks through high-risk cities throughout this nation. Although the Department of Homeland Security has been unwilling to require safer, alternative routes for these shipments, we can virtually eliminate this risk if we require end-users of chlorine to use safer technologies whenever possible. For example, there are 3,000 water treatment plants across our nation. According to these plants' government-required risk management plans, about 100 of these facilities store enough deadly chlorine and other chemicals to endanger 100,000 people each, and many still accept rail shipments of chlorine. In Florida, nearly 7 million people are threatened by deadly chemicals utilized at water treatment facilities. The Hillsborough River Water Treatment Plant and the Howard F. Curren Advanced Wastewater Treatment Plant both receive rail shipments of chlorine and store sufficient quantities to threaten over 1.5 million local residents, according to publicly available documents. This is a completely unnecessary risk. That's why I have pushed for legislation that would require high-threat water facilities, such as the Hillsborough River and Howard F. Curren treatment plants, to transition to safer technologies and provide funding to help them do so. In my home state of Delaware, the Wilmington Water Treatment Facility took the proactive step of transitioning from chlorine gas to sodium hypochlorite (bleach). This completely eliminated the threat to 500,000 citizens in the area with no impact on service to the community.Unfortunately, last year my legislation requiring high-risk water plants to switch to safer technologies was defeated on a party line vote. Despite this setback, I intend to continue working with my colleagues to reduce the threats posed by these dangerous chemicals. The president often says that we are fighting in Iraq to keep from fighting terrorists here at home. While this point is debatable, we should, at minimum, learn the lessons of the fight over there and take prudent steps towards protecting the homeland. Sen. Joseph R. Biden Jr., D-Del., is chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. 