
            	ABCs This Week with George Stephanopoulos
             April 24, 2005 
 This is a partial transcript of ABCs THIS WEEK WITH GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS from April 24, 2005.   GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS, ABC NEWS:  Thanks, John.      And for more on this, we're now joined by Senator Jon Kyl. He's the chairman of the Republican Policy Committee in the Senate -- and Senator Joseph Biden, the ranking Democrat on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.   And, Senator Kyl, let me begin with you. Four of your Republican colleagues have now asked questions about this nomination. And Senator Frist last night, in an AP interview, suggested that some in the Republican leadership may also have questions about this nomination.   Are you one of them?      SENATOR JON KYL, CHAIRMAN, REPUBLICAN POLICY COMMITTEE: Absolutely not. It's certainly appropriate for people to ask questions. That's exactly what they should do. As a matter of fact, I'm informed that all of the Republicans on the Foreign Relations Committee who had heard all of the testimony were prepared to vote Secretary Bolton out, but one of the Senators who had not been present had heard all the allegations from the Democratic side and he thought that he needed to hear the responses from the Department of State and the administration and so he asked for another hearing. I don't see that there are any untoward questions being asked.   GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS: Senator Biden, you heard what John Karl said about former secretary Eagleburger there. Republicans believe that Democrats - that this is really about ideology but you're changing the subject to Bolton's temperament.   SENATOR JOSEPH BIDEN, RANKING MEMBER, FOREIGN RELATIONS COMMITTEE: This is about whether or not you try to alter intelligence data or alter what the intelligence data says or intimidate experts in the intelligence community to say something different than you want said.   For example, it's one thing to lose your temper with a staffer who doesn't have the car there when you're supposed to be at a meeting with the president. It's another thing to intimidate a staffer and say, look, I want to say that Cuba has this capability, and the intelligence expert says, we don't have evidence to sustain that, Mr. Bolton. You can't say that. And then have Mr. Bolton try to get that person fired. That is a lot different than temperament, a lot, the only relevance of temperament here, George, that goes beyond these other questions is not whether he is a nice guy or not is if he would do these kinds of things to other people then it's more believable that the assertions made by intelligence analysts that he tried to intimidate them and chill their willingness to say what the facts were becomes more relevant.   GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS: Senator Kyl, how about that specific point, the idea that he was intimidating intelligence analysts and Newsweek also reports this morning that the committee is examining allegations that Bolton misused or hyped flawed intelligence against Syria, China and Iran, as well. Wouldn't that be disqualifying if it's shown to be true?   SENATOR JON KYL: George, what my good friend Senator Biden just said is absolutely false. There is absolutely no evidence that John Bolton tried to get anybody fired. What he asked was that since this employee had done something improper for which the employee's supervisors apologized to John Bolton, he said assign him somewhere else. I don't have confidence in him. Work for somebody else. He didn't try to get him fired. He didn't try to change the intelligence.   John Bolton had an important job to do, and when a subordinate didn't do the right thing and then lied to him about it he was correct in going to the person's supervisors and saying, I can't deal with this guy. Have him work for somebody else so these are the kind of misrepresentations that have all been refuted. There is nothing new in any of these allegations. What you have here is an individual who is extraordinarily capable, who represents the president of the United States who wants to send him over to the United Nations to do a tough job and John Bolton is the kind of guy that can get the job done.   GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS:  Senator Biden, Senator Kyl just says you're making misrepresentations that are absolutely false.      SENATOR JOSEPH BIDEN: George, this is why I'm reluctant to do these programs sometimes because to the viewer it must look like that these two politicians are, you know, in tit for tat and saying the other doesn't know what he's talking about.   Let's look at the facts reported in The New York Times today, okay, reported in our hearings under sworn testimony by a fellow named Mr. Westerman and another analyst we'll call Mr. Smith. Let me just read one exchange. The very fella that my friend Senator Kyl just referred to, Mr. Westerman, the intelligence analyst, expert on biological weapons, his boss was a guy named Flights (PH). He sends the intelligence analyst the following e-mail. 'I'm dismayed and disgusted that the unwarranted personal attacks on you are affecting you in this way,' Mr. Fingar (PH) said in a message to Mr. Westerman. Two days earlier another message Mr. Westerman wrote to Mr. Fingar, the very person we're talking about, that the personal attacks, harassment and impugning of my integrity now affect my work, my health and dedication to public service.   It required, this exchange, an extended exchange required the secretary of state to go down and speak to the analyst in what they call INR, you know what that means. That's the intelligence apparatus within the State Department and say, I support Mr. Westerman in this. Mr. Westerman did not lie. Mr. Westerman did not say a single thing that wasn't true. Mr. Westerman was intimidated and attempted to be moved on three different occasions Mr. Bolton tried to get him move and when your only portfolio is you're an expert on biological weapons, to say you should be taken off that portfolio is saying like the only thing you can do in a restaurant is cook.   GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS: Senator Kyl ...      SENATOR JOSEPH BIDEN: But we're no longer going to let you cook. GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS: Senator Kyl, these charges haven't only been coming from Democrats, they've been coming from career officials, they've been coming from two ambassadors who served under President Bush and, of course, we read this week that secretary of state, former secretary of state Colin Powell has called Republican members of the committee and expressed his reservations, as well. Is this nomination really worth all the trouble?   SENATOR JON KYL: I don't think it's correct that Secretary Powell has called members of the committee and expressed reservations. I know ...   GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS:  It was reported in both The New York Times and The Washington Post.      SENATOR JON KYL: That doesn't make it so, George. What I understand is that two of my colleagues on the Republican side called Secretary Powell and asked him and there's a difference. He is willing to express his opinions. As well he should. He's expressed support for John Bolton in the past. He brought him before the Congress and lauded him for his work on the Moscow treaty for example.   GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS: Let me stop you right there, Senator. Excuse me for a second. He did not sign a letter supporting Secretary Bolton and it's clear according to several sources in both those papers that he expressed reservations about Mr. Bolton for this position. Does that give you pause?   SENATOR JON KYL: What gives me pause is the effort here to take a very good public servant, who has a long record of accomplishing things diplomatically for the United States, the proliferation security initiative, the Moscow treaty, dealing with Libya. I believe it was the Libya matter or the Moscow treaty in which Secretary Powell especially complimented John Bolton and because he's a tough guy who supports the president's policies, trying to get at him by dragging allegations from the past 25 years ago when somebody felt that they were put down by the guy, we need a tough guy over at the United Nations. It has become a corrupt and ineffective institution and the president wants to send somebody over there that can get the job done.   GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS: Let me move on.      SENATOR JOSEPH BIDEN: George, George, can I ...      GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS: One more word, Sir.      SENATOR JOSEPH BIDEN: One more word. With regard to Libya, the secretary, the foreign minister of Great Britain, the foreign secretary Jack Straw asked Powell to take Bolton off of the Libya case. He was taken off of the Libya case because he was undermining it. That's not 20 years ago.   GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS: You guys, you're both members of the Senate Judiciary Committee and of course the Senate is about to embark on this potentially controversial move to change the rules on whether or not to allow a filibuster of judicial nominations. Today Senator Bill Frist is speaking at this Justice Sunday event, a conference of religious and social conservatives organized to fight, to support this change in the rules, and, Senator Biden, let me begin with you. Senator Frist is, opens up his remarks. We've received a copy of them this morning. First admonishing the numbers there to say that remember we have to disagree without being disagreeable, but then he goes on to make a very strong case for this change in rules.   I want to show you some of that and get you to respond.      SENATOR BILL FRIST, MAJORITY LEADER: My Democratic counterpart Senator Reid calls me a radical Republican. I don't think it's radical to ask Senators to vote. I don't think it's radical to expect Senators to fulfill their constitutional responsibilities. I don't think it's radical to restore precedents that worked so well for 214 years.   GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS (Off Camera): He also says, Senator Biden, that never in 214 years, never in the history of the United States Senate had a judicial nominee with majority support been denied an up-or-down vote until two years ago. Your response?   SENATOR JOSEPH BIDEN: That's not true. There was an attempt to deny. There was a filibuster against Justice Fortis (PH) Justice Fortis in the supreme court of the United States.   It was ultimately that Justice Fortis ended up withdrawing. There was a filibuster. It lasted for I think 24 hours and over a period of five days. That's simply not true, number one. Factually let's put in perspective what we're talking about here, George. The president of the united states has sent up 215 judicial nominees. We have confirmed 205 of the 215 and the fact is the ones that are seven of the ten that were stopped, three had to do with a Michigan fight.   Seven of the ten who were stopped are justices like Justice Janice Brown of the supreme court of the state of California who says she calls the supreme court decisions in 1937 the decisions of a socialist revolution in 1937. She talks about needing to do away with the New Deal. She raises questions as does the leading architect or the leading supporter at the American Enterprise Institute of the constitutionality of the Social Security system and so on.   These are judges, the seven who were stopped, there's not about abortion. One of them the issue came up about parental consent. The other six have extremely radical views about the so-called takings clause, the non delegation doctrine and if you read what they've written and you read what others have written about those issues, you're talking about the stopping the ability of county zoning facilities to be able to tell you you can't build a factory in the middle of a neighborhood unless you compensate the (inaudible). This is radical stuff.   GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS: So Senator Kyl, we have a fight over who is the radical. Senator Frist says it's Senator Biden and his allies. Senator Biden says that it's you and your allies.   SENATOR JOSEPH BIDEN: No, no, no. What I'm saying is, I'm not saying my colleagues are radical. GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS (Off Camera): I stand corrected. I stand croaked.   SENATOR JOSEPH BIDEN: They are not. I'm saying the seven judges in question have a radically different view and, remember, this is a Republican court. This is a Republican supreme court, seven out of nine, and 58 percent of all the members of the judiciary are Republican appointed.   GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS: Let Senator Kyl respond.      SENATOR JON KYL: Yeah, first of all, there is a remedy. If you don't like the people, if you think they're too radical from your point of view, vote against them.   Joe, on March 19th, 1997, that's exactly what you said ought to happen on the Senate floor. Candidates ought to receive an up-or-down vote, Senator Leahy, Senator Kennedy, Senator Boxer, Senator Daschle, all of your colleagues on the judiciary committee have made the point that a filibuster for judicial nominees is wrong. If you don't like the people, vote against them but to suggest to specifically answer the question that these are radicals, you talk about Priscilla Owen and Janice Rogers-Brown. Janice Rogers-Brown is a sharecropper's daughter from Alabama. The first black woman to serve on the California supreme court and she's been on the appellate courts there for over a decade and when the Californian - the people of California were asked do they support her retention, 76 percent of the people of California, not exactly a conservative state, said, yes, we want to retain her, 15, in the case of Priscilla Owen from Texas, 83 percent of the people of her state voted to reelect her to the state supreme court. The American Bar Association, not exactly a radical right-wing organization, has rated all of these nominees qualified.   These are people that President Bush has sent to us for confirmation. If you don't like them, if they're too radical for you, then you can always vote against them but as so many of the other, of our colleagues on the Judiciary Committee on both sides of the aisle have said, they deserve an up-or-down vote. It's not changing the rules to go back to 214 years of tradition in which a majority vote was always what it took to confirm a judicial nominee.   GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS: Senator Biden, we only a few seconds left. Let me just ask you a quick question. David Broder of The Washington Post floats a possible compromise this morning. He says the Democrats should allow these seven to get an up-or-down vote in return for a promise from President Bush to have no recess appointments and a promise from the Republican leadership to allow each one of these seven to be debated extensively. Is that good enough for you?   SENATOR JOSEPH BIDEN: No, but I think we should compromise and say to them that we're willing to of the seven judges, we'll let a number of them go through, the two most extreme not go through, and put off this vote and compromise. Let me read what the American Enterprise says. Judicial activism will have to be deployed. It is plain that the idea of judicial deference is a dead-end street for conservatives. That's Mr. Greevey (PH). That's what this is all about. This is about ensuring that we have judicial activists. The filibuster has always been available to stop extremes. GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS: Senator Biden.   SENATOR JOSEPH BIDEN:  These seven are in that category.      GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS:  Senator Biden and Senator Kyl thank you both very much.      GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS:  Coming up, the Pope Benedict debate. What will his tough love mean for America's Catholics?      To visit ABC's This Week web page, go to:ABCNews.com   