
            	Senator Biden on Hardball with Chris Matthews
             August 24, 2006 
 This is a partial transcript of Hardball from August 24, 2006.   CHRIS MATTHEWS, MSNBC HOST      MATTHEWS: Welcome back to Hardball. In today's Washington Post, Joe Biden, the Senate's top Democrat on Foreign Relations, once again presented his plan to give regional control in Iraq to Sunnis, Shiites and Kurds. His plan also would start redeploying U.S. troops out of Iraq this year. Senator Biden is in Iowa tonight testing the presidential waters.   Senator Biden, do the people of Iraq support the idea of a federal system or a confederacy, rather, where there is a lot of autonomy by the three separate groups?   BIDEN: The answer is: I believe, yes, Chris. There's been a real change here. If you asked me that a year ago, the Sunnis still thought they could control the whole show, the Shia thought they could take over politically and physically, and the Kurds were hoping it would fall apart. Now they all have different equities.   The only way to hold this country together so that it is together ten years from now and it's not chaos and to create the conditions for us to leave and leave something stable behind is to give these three regional groups breathing room.   MATTHEWS:  Who else supports this notion that you are supporting  yourself?      BIDEN: Well, there's guys like Les Gelb, former chairman of the Council on Foreign Relations, there's a whole lot of folks out there that do, but every time anyone says to me, You know, OK Biden, I don't like your plan, my response is: What is your plan? Has anyone else you have ever had on your show had a plan? Not one single person.   MATTHEWS:  I have been looking at this book.  I'm only into it  now, but Peter Galbraith's book called Looming Tower.      BIDEN:  Yes.      MATTHEWS:  Is that the same theme that you are pushing, which is  the separated power?      BIDEN: No, Peter goes further than I do, although Peter called me to compliment me on the plan. Peter, really, is looking for an actual flat partitioning.   All I'm suggesting is that under the existing constitution of Iraq you allow the constitution to function, which says that any three governates, any three of their states, of the 18 states, essentially like our states, can get together and form a region.   You give those people in that region, the Kurds have already done that effectively, the Sunnis have basically done it and the Shia have basically done it. Give them control over the local laws, just like you do with the local laws on marriage and education and property in our various states.   And also give them their own police force, like the state police in Maryland, the state police in Delaware, et cetera. And have a central government that is -- make Baghdad a federal city like Washington, give them control over their borders, their national army and the allocation of resources.   And then you've got to give the Sunnis a piece of the action. What's the action? The action is oil. You've got to give them some of the revenues.   That is the basis for this country being able to stay together as a loosely federated republic and not a haven for terror and not a threat to its neighbors.   MATTHEWS:  Have you run this by Muqtada al-Sadr?      BIDEN:  Yes, well, actually I have run it by everybody.      MATTHEWS:  These are the kind of guys -- these are the kind of  militiamen who are out there dominating the country.      BIDEN:  No, but I -- you know, by the way have I personally ran  this, again, by...      MATTHEWS: I'm being sarcastic somewhat because these guys want to fight to take over the whole country. They thought those were the stakes.   BIDEN: No, no, Chris, here's what happens. I disagree with you. What happens is if you do that you, if you break these into regions, you'll get what I got from the British two star general in Basra three weeks ago. I ask him, what's going on down here?   And he said, look, we have no insurgency and we have no civil war. We have Shia militia fighting to establish themselves, to be able to control the Shia regions once we leave, when we fill the vacuum.   What will happen, Chris, if you do what I said, you will see each of the militia, you will see the Badr Brigade going after the Mahdi army. You won't see them going into the Anbar province and up to Fallujah. You will not see that a tall.   The truth of the matter is they will have to stay, quote, home to see who controls their region. That is the only reasonable prospect we have here.   And, Chris, I announced this plan four months ago. Remember being on your show I said, Chris, there's a civil war. This is not the insurgency. And everybody said, oh, no, no, no, no. That's not it.   Everybody agrees it's a civil war and, Chris, all American troops we could put in there, all the king's horses and all the king's men can't do anything positive if this is a full-blown civil war, so you better figure out how to avoid that.   MATTHEWS: What do you make of Senator John McCain's crack at the president that sold us what he called a day at the beach?   BIDEN: He did sell us a day at the beach. He did. Remember Rumsfeld implying that Johnny and Jane would come marching home by Christmas after we went in? Remember him saying we're going to get down, implying we'd get down to 30,000 troops? Remember them saying that we would be greeted with open arms?   Remember this crook Chalabi who should be in jail in Jordan because he was convicted of being viewed as the guy we flew into Basra who was going to march triumphantly up to Baghdad and become the new president? And remember that not just me, but you also had great senators like Dick Lugar, we wrote a report saying whoa, whoa, whoa wait a minute.   You will not be greeted with open arms. There won't be enough oil to pay for this. There's not a civilian bureaucracy to put in place. We will be there five to 10 years. It wasn't like this was Monday morning quarterbacking. We wrote that report six months before he went into Iraq.   MATTHEWS: Unfortunately, we have been carried into Iraq by the dreams of the ideologues. Senator Biden, please stay with us. We will be right back with Senator Joe Biden, the ranking Democrat on Foreign Relations.   (COMMERCIAL BREAK)      (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)      GEORGE W. BUSH (R), PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: The strategy is to help the Iraqi people achieve their objectives and their dreams, which is a democratic society. That's the strategy. The tactics -- now either you say yes, it's important we stay there and get it done, or we leave. We're not leaving so long as I'm the president.   (END VIDEO CLIP)      MATTHEWS:  We're not leaving so long as I'm president.  Welcome  back to Hardball.      We're back with Delaware Senator Joe Biden, the ranking Democrat  on Foreign Relations.  He's out in Iowa right now.      Senator, let me ask about the president's commitment to Maliki, the new prime minister of Iraq? What do you make of Maliki yourself?   BIDEN: I met with him, Chris, over the 4th of July recess. I had a long meeting with him. I asked him a couple of questions. I said what are you going to do to get Sunni buy-in, because everyone knows, Chris, that without the Sunnis buying into this new government, that there's no chance of this working.   And I said, Zal, our ambassador, helped get you to amend the constitution before it was voted on to allow it to be further amended to give the Sunnis a piece of the action in terms of the oil. He said, Oh, we have already done that.   I said no, I said -- and I was in the room with Jack Reed and others. And I said, Mr. President you and I may be the only two people in this room that's read your constitution and it does not do that. And he was totally dismissive. I think he has no intention -- no intention -- of doing what has to be done in terms of political solution with the Sunnis.   Secondly, I asked him the question about whether or not he was prepared to take on Sadr and those crazies that he has that have infiltrated the army, infiltrated the police and are acting as death squads.   I think he has no intention of trying to deal with that Shia coalition of the three parties including Sadr who has 32 seats in the parliament there, and he's beholden to them.   So I don't see him as a unifying figure that President Bush sees  him as.      MATTHEWS:  Do you think he is working for Iran?      BIDEN: I think he's working very -- not for, but I think he sees his interests lie in Iran. I think that most -- now, most of the Shia believe that their interest lies in Iran because they are looking at this in a way that I don't think that -- they are not ready to make the kind of concessions needed to have a unified country.   Chris, when you had me on your show after I was over there on my fifth visit or so, when I was over there during their vote on the constitution, I came back and you asked me about that vote. And everybody was saying -- and I told you the president said when I debriefed him -- great Democratic effort. And I said, Mr. President it was freely conducted but it wasn't Democratic.   We later learned 92 percent of all the people that voted for a sectarian candidate. That is not unity and we continue to pretend that is not the problem. And so the question is, how do you keep Iraq together, how do you protect Americans' interest, and how do you get troops home? What is the plan to do that? And the president doesn't have a clue.   MATTHEWS: OK. So we have lost 3,500 men -- mostly men, in a war. We've got 20,000 wounded and half of them seriously wounded, amputees, so that we could create an appendage to Iran. That's what we've done.   BIDEN:  That's what it is turning out to be.  Look, that's my  theory, Chris.      MATTHEWS:  I mean, really, that's the bottom line here, is that's  what we've created, a larger Iran.      BIDEN: No, and by the way, I'm not arguing with you. Unless we have a radical change in policy, a political solution here, that is what is going to happen.   Look, before we went to war Iran was hemmed in by bad guys called the Taliban, who were running the show in Afghanistan, they didn't like and on the other side of the equation they had this bad guy Saddam Hussein and now what happens is we did them a great favor.   We should have taken down the Taliban. We should be taking them out. We are not doing that job now in Afghanistan. And what did we end up doing?   We end up with a Shia dominated government, doesn't seem prepared to make any political concession to have a united, I never thought there would be a democracy.   All I was looking for was a loosely federated republic. And it looks like that is getting further out of reach because the president is not listening to his military guys. He is not listening to the guys I talked to when I'm in Iraq.   MATTHEWS: And now the same mentality that led us into Iraq is leading us into a fight with Iran. We have this character on the house intelligence committee named Flights, a student or some sort of (inaudible) of John Bolton, the same mentality, neo-conservative mentality.   All it what you want, Straussian, whatever, and now they are talking us into another war in Iran, with a stronger Iran. What do you make of this point of view?   BIDEN: Well, I make of it absolute lunacy. Look, I read the front page of the New York Times today like you did and what did they say? You have, quote, the headline said G.O.P. putting pressure on the intelligence community.   What is this?  Did they not see the last replay here?      The intelligence community is giving us an honest assessment and what they are doing this time, out-loud, is they are giving us an assessment of the credibility and the degree of credibility they place in their sources. And they are saying they are not sure.   And this administration, the G.O.P., is beating them up? Because they are not saying that in fact Iran is a greater immediate danger than they think it is? This is another one of those stampedes.   I pray to god, I pray to god that all of those guys in the G.O.P., who say we are not going to make the mistake again, I hope the lord they don't listen to this malarkey. I hope mainstream GOPers in the House and Senate don't drink the cool aid again here.   MATTHEWS: The big can of it being passed around up there and it is being passed around by the same mentality that took us into Iraq.   Anyway, thank you very much, Senator Joe Biden of Delaware.  He's  running for president.      END    