
            	CBS's Face the Nation
             July 24, 2005 
 This is a partial transcript of CBS's FACE THE NATION from July 24, 2005   BOB SCHIEFFER, HOST:      And with us now from Toronto, Canada, the ranking Democrat on the Senate Judiciary Committee, Senator Joseph Biden of Delaware.   Senator, thanks for coming. Before we get to the Supreme Court business, I want to ask you about what I was just talking about last there with the attorney general, who now says that he waited 12 hours after the Justice Department notified him that they were launching a formal investigation into this who leaked and who outed, who blew the cover of a CIA agent. He waited 12 hours before telling the White House staff about that. But in the meantime, he did confide to the White House chief of staff that there was such an investigation coming. It seems to me to perhaps open a whole new can of worms. What is your reaction?   Senator JOSEPH BIDEN (Democrat, Delaware; Judiciary Committee): Well, it raises a lot of questions. I don't doubt the attorney general's sincerity. But it does seem to me it wasn't the soundest in judgments. There's been a real inertia at the White House to look into this to begin with, number one. And number two, the real question now is who did the chief of staff speak to? Did the chief of staff pick up the phone and call Karl Rove? Did the chief of staff pick up the phone and call anybody else? Ordinarily, you would think that he would immediately send out an e-mail to every member of the staff and say--you know, you don't have to call them. Every of those staff members carries around a BlackBerry and--send an e-mail saying `Boom.' But I'm sure what's going to happen now is the investigators will take a look at--to see who, in fact, the chief of staff spoke to.   SCHIEFFER: The attorney general did confirm earlier today, and I believe for the first time, that he also was called before the special prosecutor and he, too, testified. Of course, we cannot know at this point what they talked about in that conversation. But it does seem to me that this story has now moved beyond where it was.   Sen. BIDEN: Well, it seems to me it is, too. I didn't realize how many people had been called before the grand jury. I predict one of the things that will come out here is the comparing what the principal persons being investigated here now--Mr. Rove and Mr. Libby--what did they say to the grand jury, what did other people say to the grand jury. You know, lots of times in these kinds of investigations, the thing that gets you in the most trouble is an inconsistency. I'm not saying there is one, but it's much more extensive than I thought it was, and I think it has a way to go.   SCHIEFFER: All right. Jan.      Ms. JAN CRAWFORD GREENBURG (Chicago Tribune): You know, we also spoke with the attorney general about the Roberts nomination and whether or not certain documents that Senate Democrats have suggested they'd be interested in taking a look at would, in fact, be turned over from when Judge Roberts was in the Justice Department. What documents do you think should be made available to the Senate?   Sen. BIDEN: Well, I don't know enough to know that. I do know enough to know, having conducted many of these hearings as a chairman or ranking member for 17 years, that it is not at all inappropriate to seek documents. And in most cases, the documents sought are provided. A lot of it has to do with work product of cases that have been worked upon. But, again, the one thing I'll agree with the attorney general on, I think it's a little premature to make a blanket judgment about what should be asked for and what should be given. But my guess is the administration--look, this should be fair, this should be open and it should be a two-way street. We should treat the nominee with respect, and the White House should treat with respect the request coming from the Senate.   Ms. GREENBURG: Well, back in 2003, Senate Democrats blocked the nomination of Miguel Estrada to the same court that Judge Roberts sits on now, saying that they just didn't know enough about his views, and the White House would not release those documents, so therefore, they just couldn't vote for him. Now John Roberts was in a very similar situation at that point, yet the Senate Democrats did not demand at that time the White House turn over the same documents. Why not? Why didn't you demand those documents and filibuster John Roberts at that point?   Sen. BIDEN: Because there was not nearly as much controversy surrounding the role played by John Roberts in the administration and by Estrada, though they were very different questions being asked. I don't think you just go out in a blanket fishing expedition and ask for every single thing that a nominee has written or advised the White House or the Justice Department of or the solicitor general. In the case of the nominee that was blocked, there were very specific requests raised as a consequence of questions that related to that particular nominee.   Ms. GREENBURG: But--go ahead. I'm sorry.      SCHIEFFER: I was just going to ask you, Senator, this does present something of a problem for Democrats who are thinking about running for president next time out it would seem to me.   Sen. BIDEN: I don't know any of those.      SCHIEFFER: You don't know any of those. You have suggested on this broadcast that you intend to seek the nomination. Most people think Hillary Rodham Clinton is going to seek the nomination. Will presidential politics play any part in how Democrats react and vote on this nomination?   Sen. BIDEN: I don't think so, but I think every single thing that anyone is thinking our president does or says will be viewed through that prism. So whether or not that is the motivation of anyone voting on Roberts or asking questions about Roberts, I'm sure it'll be phrased in that context. I'm kind of where the American people are right now, Bob, and that is I like what I see about Roberts in terms of his personality, his temperament. He doesn't seem to be an absolute ideologue by any stretch of the imagination. But like the American people, to know more. You asked a rhetorical question: Could this mean a radical change in the direction of the court? The answer is, it could mean that. The 5-to-4 decisions were ones that involved O'Connor. She's being replaced. For example, what is the role of the cur--are you able to get a second opinion or can HMOs stop you from that? O'Connor said, no, you get a second opinion. Are you able to enforce the EPA regulations against a state? O'Connor said, yeah, you can. What happens if this guy says no? So the answer is there's a great deal at stake about personal autonomy, Schiavo kinds of cases, and the willingness of the court to allow the government to intervene as a shield on behalf of people. For example, can tobacco companies target our kids? There's a real issue. On the right...   SCHIEFFER: Well...      Sen. BIDEN: ...they say no, that's freedom of speech. Big deal.       SCHIEFFER: ...let me just as you the obvious one and the hot-button issue. Is it fair to ask him what he thinks about abortion?   Sen. BIDEN: That's the question my students most often ask me. I've been teaching this issue for 13 years now, and that's the one they most ask. And after extensive research I've done and others have done who teach this issue, a senator's allowed to ask anything he or she wants and the nominee's allowed to decline or answer anything in any way they want. And then a senator makes his or her judgments based on what satisfies them. I personally do not ask specific outcomes, `How would you vote on A, B, C or D,' but I do think it's really important, and John Roberts said in his previous nomination hearing, he said, `I don't have any particular methodology, because some of the words in the Constitution are clear--two-thirds must vote for a treaty. It's clear on its face.' Other things, the liberty clause of the 14th Amendment. It what--that's in the eye of the beholder. So I want to know, how are you going to interpret those phrases in the Constitution that aren't clear on their face?   Ms. GREENBURG: And Sen...      Sen. BIDEN: And I think there's much at stake there.      SCHIEFFER: Barring any unforeseen development here, do you think he's going to be confirmed, Senator?      Sen. BIDEN: Oh, I'm not going to make that judgment again. I've been down this road before. You never, ever know. I just hope, and I believe, he will get a fair and respectful hearing and I expect in return that the administration will respond respectfully to the Senate's requests.   SCHIEFFER: All right. Well, Senator, we have to leave it there. Thank you so much for joining us this morning.      I'll be back with a final word in just a minute.      To visit CBS's Face the Nation website, go to:     CBSNews.com   