
            	SEN. BIDEN Issues Statement After Iraq Supplemental Vote
             May 24, 2007 
 Biden:  The President may be prepared to play a game of political chicken with the well-being of our troops.  I am not.  I will not.  Washington, DC -- U.S. Senator Joseph R. Biden, Jr. (D-DE) issued the following statement tonight immediately after the vote on the Iraq Emergency Supplemental Bill: Earlier this month, Congress sent the President an emergency spending bill for Iraq. It provided every dollar our troops need and the President requested - and then some.  It also provided the American people a plan to bring this war to a responsible end, including the language Senator Levin and I wrote to start to bring our troops home in four months, to get most of them out by early next year, and to limit the mission of the smaller number that remain to fighting Al Qaeda and training Iraqis.  In vetoing the bill, the President denied our troops the funding they need, and the American people the plan they want.  When the President did that, I urged that we send the same bill back to him - again and again and again.   But the hard reality is that we needed 60 votes to do that - votes we do not yet have. And even if we had the 60 votes, we'd need 67 to overcome another veto by the President.  And we don't have those votes yet, either. I don't like the bill that we just voted on, and that I voted for.  It denies the American people a plan for a responsible way out of Iraq.   It would also cut off aid to the Iraqis if benchmarks aren't met.  That would be self-defeating.  We're trying to build up Iraqis so we can get Americans out of harm's way and let the Iraqis do the job. So I would have liked nothing better than to vote against this bill.  But I have to deal with reality.  And the reality is this:   First, for now, those of us who want to change course in Iraq don't have the 67 votes to override the President's veto.  As long as the President refuses to budge, the only way to force him to change his policy in Iraq is with 67 votes in the Senate.   Well, we've got 49 Democrats and one Independent on our side.  We have to bring 17 Republicans over to our way of thinking - to the way a strong majority of Americans are thinking.  We're making progress, but we're not there yet.   So it's nice to talk about taking a stand on this, but we don't have the votes - yet - to turn our rhetoric into reality.  That's the reality. Second, I believe that as long as we have troops on the front lines, it is our shared responsibility to give them the equipment and protection they need.   The President may be prepared to play a game of political chicken with the well-being of our troops.  I am not.  I will not.   For example, if we don't get the money this bill provides into the pipeline right now, we will not be able to build and field the Mine Resistant vehicles that I've been fighting for, and that can cut American deaths and casualties from road side bombs by two-thirds.   Under anyone's plan for Iraq - even those who advocate pulling every single American out the country tomorrow - the reality is that it would take months to get our forces out.   And as long as a single soldier is there, I will do everything I can to make sure he or she has the best protection this country can provide.  That's my reality.   Third, I'm prepared to cut funding to get our troops out of the sectarian civil war in Iraq and to start to bring most of them home, while limiting the mission of those that remain.  That's why I voted for the Reid-Feingold amendment last week.  But I'm not prepared to vote for anything that cuts off 100 percent of the funding for troops in Iraq, because I believe it would be totally irresponsible to pull every single soldier out.   We can and we must get most of them out by early next year.  But we will still need a much smaller number of troops in Iraq to prevent Al Qaeda from taking territory and to continue training Iraqis.  That's my reality too. I know this supplemental bill is a bitter pill to swallow for so many Americans who believe, as I do, that we must end this war.   They don't understand how it is they voted Democrats into the majority in both houses of Congress to end the war, but we have not been able to do so, yet. Like it or not, we have a system that protects the rights of the minority, and puts an extra burden on the majority in order to have its way.  It also tries to create a balance of power between the President and Congress.   That's why it takes 60 votes in the Senate - not 51 - to get something done.  And that's why it takes 67 votes to overcome the resistance of a President. That's the reality, too.  So where do those of us determined to end this war go from here? Day after day, vote after vote, we must and we will work to keep the pressure on Republicans to stop reflexively backing the President and start supporting a responsible path out of Iraq.   Make them vote against the will of the people, day after day.  They will not be able to sustain it.  They will come around.  And we will end this war. That's the reality.  That's how it will end.  And I will work every day to make that day come as soon as possible. 