
            	Transcript of Senators Biden & Bailey Hutchison on Larry King Live
             October 24, 2006 
 U.S. SENATORS JOSEPH BIDEN (D-DE) AND KAY BAILEY HUTCHISON (R-TX)      LARRY KING, HOST      KING: We now welcome to Larry King Live, in Dallas, Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison, Chairman of the Military Construction and Veterans Committee, Subcommittee of the Appropriations Committee, Vice Chairman of Senate Republican Conference, Republican of Texas. She is running for reelection for a third term.   In Wilmington, Delaware, is Senator Joe Biden, Ranking Member of Foreign Relations, co-author of an op-ed in today's Wall Street Journal titled Bipartisan Redeployment, he, of course, the Democrat of Delaware.   Senator Hutchison, we know Tip O'Neill said that all politics is local but, in fact, isn't Iraq the overriding issue in all of this election?   HUTCHISON: I think Iraq is certainly one of the two major issues of this election, Larry. I think the economy is the other one and we're seeing huge successes in the economy, higher stock market, low unemployment, home ownership is up, so I think that's very important to people and that's sort of localized. But there's no question when we have troops in harm's way that is going to override everything.   KING:  Senator Biden, would you say something went wrong?      BIDEN: Something went wrong right from the beginning, Larry. It's been wrong from the beginning. There's been no apparent willingness on the part of the civilians in this administration to change it.   Kay may disagree with me but I believe that they have not listened to the military. I've been there seven times in Iraq. Everything I hear on the ground I come home and it's very different than what you hear back home. But the thing is broken, Larry. They need a political solution in Iraq and we need a bipartisan solution at home.   KING: Senator Hutchison, General Casey asserted today that it will take another 12 to 18 months for Iraq security forces to take over. Is that realistic to you?   HUTCHISON: Well, I certainly defer to General Casey. He is on the ground and I can't second guess him. That does not seem realistic to me but certainly I think we need to readjust, just as the president is doing.   I do have to say I disagree with my colleague that everything has been bad from the beginning. I think there have been some great successes here but it's not where we want to be and nobody denies that, including the president and he is adjusting.   KING:  What do you make, Senator Biden, of the leaving behind the  concept of stay the course?      BIDEN: Well, I think it's an adjustment to reality. I hope it's real. I hope it's not just to get by the next 13 days and give candidates who are in trouble over the war some reason to be able to say, Look, we're going to change. I really hope it's real. If it's real, we have a shot.   Larry, I don't know anybody, including Kay and Dick Lugar and a lot of Republicans I respect, who don't acknowledge that you have to realize that in order to get the Sunnis to buy into this operation of a unified government you have to give them a piece of the oil.   In order to be able to keep Iraq together you got to give them a little bit of breathing room. I've been arguing for the better part of ten months now that you should, in fact allow the federal system to come in existence.   Let them have control over their local security, control over their local laws with a central government that controls the borders and oil distribution and has an army.   That's what their constitution calls for. I don't know why we're not pushing it. I think Maliki, the present leader, is unwilling to take on the delicate coalition among the Shia and as a consequence of that I don't think we're going to make much progress.   KING: Senator Hutchison, your fellow Republican Senator Lindsey Graham said this week that we're on the verge of chaos in Iraq and that the current plan isn't working. And, Senator Warner recently warned that the war is drifting sideways. Do you differ with your colleagues?   HUTCHISON: Well, I think the president has said we are going to adjust that we do that in wars. We do that when things are not going as we expected. And, I think everyone admits that things are not going as we expected.   And, I do think that after looking at the constitution that in looking at the way the Kurds have solidified their area and they have a growing economy and a stability that we ought to be looking at a way to have some semi-autonomous regions but a federalism so that the oil revenue can be shared. I think that's one of the options that really should be on the table among others.   KING:  Senator Biden, can the Democrats take control of the  Senate?      BIDEN: Well, they can, Larry. I don't know whether they will but I think the Democrats will make gains in the Senate and I think that will allow a number of our colleagues on the Republican side as well as the Democratic side to maybe form a bipartisan coalition.   I'm not in any way referring to Senator Hutchison when I say this but I think it's difficult. She's very popular in her home state. I think it's very difficult for some Republicans at this time to be put in a position where they look like they're criticizing the president by taking issue with him and be willing to join me and others and even to join Senator Hutchison's notion that is very different than the president's.   But I think that will all change after this election. Now, on the other hand if the Republicans keep the advantage they have, we don't make any gains, then I think we're going to have two more years of the same.   KING:  What will happen in two weeks, Senator Hutchison?      HUTCHISON: Well, I don't think it will be two more years of the same. I think the president is now saying we are going to readjust, so I think there is a different air and I think there have been several options put on the table.   I think that Jimmy Baker and Congressman Hamilton are looking at some very good options in a bipartisan way, as Senator Biden has mentioned. So, I think that everyone is saying Let's adjust including the president.   KING:  Will your party retain control of the Senate?      HUTCHISON:  I do believe they will.  I do.      KING:  Thank you both very much, Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison of  Texas, Senator Joe Biden of Delaware.      BIDEN:  Thank you.      END     