
            	Delegation Praises BRAC Commissions Decision to Shift Personnel to Dover Air Force Base
             August 25, 2005 
 WILMINGTON, DE -- Delawares congressional delegation  Sens. Joe Biden and Tom Carper and Congressman Mike Castle  issued the following statement today about the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commissions decision to shift about 100 personnel from Walter Reed Medical Center to Dover Air Force Base. The BRAC Commission earlier today unanimously endorsed the Pentagons proposal to relocate the Armed Forces Medical Examiner, DNA Registry and Accident Investigation teams to Dover Air Force Base.    This decision completely underscores the importance of Dover Air Force Base to our nations military forces. As other bases around the country are set to close or be downsized in the near future, Dover will actually increase in personnel  a powerful statement about its importance to the overall structure of our military and a testament to the extraordinary men and women who serve at the Base, said the delegation. The mortuary at Dover Air Force Base is the only one of itskind in the continental United States and the largest one in the Defense Department. The BRAC decision to shift personnel to Dover perfectlycomplements the work done at the bases mortuary and will actually increase its efficiency. The delegation stands ready to work with Dover officials in implementing these changes over the next several years. Were confident that Dovers men and women will handle these new responsibilities as they handle all of their work  as a team, with duty, respect and honor.    In May 2005, the Department of Defense announced its recommendations for the 2005 Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC). Thirty-three major military installations throughout the United States were recommended for closing and more than 700 were set for restructuring. The BRAC Commission has been voting on these recommendations this week. They are expected to vote tomorrow on the Air Force recommendations, including a decision about the future of the Delaware Air National Guard. The BRAC Commission has until September 8, 2005, to submit its recommendations to the President, who has until September 23, 2005, to accept or reject the list in its entirety.  