
            	Biden Introduces Legislation Allowing for Full Payment of U.S. Dues to UN Peacekeeping Operations
             January 25, 2007 
 Washington, DC  U.S. Senator Joseph R. Biden, Jr. (D-DE), Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, introduced legislation today that would allow the United States to fully pay its dues to UN Peacekeeping missions, and ensure that we do not accrue additional debt in the coming years.   Biden authored similar legislation last year, and though it passed the Senate as part of the Fiscal Year 2007 Defense Authorization Bill, it was not included in the final version sent to the President.   As a result, according to the State Department, the United States is approximately $80 million in debt, and the number grows each month as new bills come in for peacekeeping operations.       The debt comes through a 1994 law that limited U.S. payments for UN peacekeeping at 25 percent after Fiscal Year 1995, though the actual rate assessed to the U.S. by the UN has been higher.  Though temporarily amended several times since 1995, the cap remains in law, which has caused debt to accrue since January 2006.  At a time when our government continues to seek important reforms at the United Nations, it is a mistake for us to continue to fall short on our dues at the UN, said Senator Biden.  Rather than encourage reform, it may cause an adverse reaction by other nations, and undermine our reform agenda.  How can we, in good faith, fail to pay our bills while at the same time push the UN to get its financial house in order? Furthermore, United States continues to seek support at the UN for a robust mission in Darfur.  We have voted time and again in the Security Council, and rightfully so, to support critical missions in Lebanon, Haiti, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Kosovo, and many others.  The UN blue helmets are literally on the front lines in conflicts that are the worst of the worst:  protecting civilians, monitoring cease-fires, clearing mine fields, and disarming combatants. Through UN peacekeeping, the U.S. contributes to international peace and stability where we have critical foreign policy interests, while sharing the human, political and financial costs with other nations. We should not shortchange these operations.  