
            	SEN. BIDEN Introduces Legislation to Repeal 2002 War Authorization
             May 25, 2007 
  Washington, DC - U.S. Senator Joseph R. Biden, Jr. (D-DE) introduced legislation (S.J. Res 15) today to repeal the original 2002 Iraq war authorization, replacing it with a much narrower mission statement for our troops in Iraq.  The new mission - to start immediately - would be limited to:  combating terrorists, training Iraqis and force protection for our troops.  Sen. Biden's legislation requires that the President start withdrawing troops in 4 months and sets a goal of getting all troops that are unnecessary for the new mission out by March 2008.  The legislation also specifically states that nothing in the new, limited authority allows the President to attack Iran or Syria.    Yesterday, I cast my vote to protect our soldiers from the tragic effects of President Bush's misguided strategy and his incompetent mismanagement of the Iraq war, said Sen. Biden.  Today, I am introducing legislation which could truly end this war and get our troops home.  I voted for the emergency spending bill because as long as a single soldier is in Iraq, I will do everything I can to make sure he or she has the best protection we can provide.  For example, if we did not get this emergency money into the pipeline, we would leave our soldiers and Marines without the Mine Resistant Vehicles I have been fighting for and that this Administration has denied them. But now we must ratchet up the pressure on our Republican colleagues and force them to vote on whether they want to continue this war with no end in sight, or bring our troops home from Iraq without leaving chaos behind.  The bill I am introducing today will force them to confront that choice and keep the pressure on Republicans in the Senate to stop supporting the President and start backing a path out of Iraq.  Sen. Biden has long been a proponent of repealing the 2002 Iraq War Authorization, first discussing the idea with Washington Post columnist E.J. Dionne on January 5, 2007.  In a speech to the Brookings Institution on Feb. 15, 2007, Sen. Biden said The weapons of mass destruction were not there. Saddam Hussein is no longer there. The 2002 authorization is no longer relevant to the situation in Iraq.  Coupled with the Biden-Gelb plan for a federal system in Iraq, Sen. Biden believes rewriting the authorization is the best way to start bringing our troops home while protecting America's interests.  We have to keep relentless pressure on Republicans in Congress - and that's why I'm introducing this bill today, said Sen. Biden.  If the President won't change course, we need their votes to overcome his resistance.   So day after day, vote after vote, we will keep pressure on him and our Republican colleagues who support his disastrous policies in Iraq.  We will make them vote against the will of the people again and again and sooner or later they will come around and we'll get the votes we need to stop this President.  That's how this war will end and I will work every day to make that day come as soon as possible. 