
            	Senator Biden Issues Statement in Observance of the International Day for the Elimination of Violence Against Women
             November 25, 2006 
 Washington, DC  U.S. Senator Joseph R. Biden, Jr. (D-DE) issued the following remarks in recognition of the International Day for the Elimination of Violence Against Women, Friday, November 25, 2006:   The United Nations estimates that one out of three women around the world is abused physically, sexually, or mentally over the course of her lifetime. Domestic violence, rape, human trafficking, and other forms of abuse not only result in the breakdown of families and communities, but also compromise global economic and political security. This epidemic must be countered by a forceful international commitment to eradicating violence against women which includes punishing offenders and improving the coordination between legal, health, and criminal systems assisting victims. I believe that empowering women worldwide  whether that is ensuring equal rights, opening up educational opportunities or reducing HIV/AIDS infections  requires us to address family violence head-on.   I have been a longstanding supporter of the Convention on the Elimination of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW), a landmark international treaty which outlines basic human rights integral to the protection and advancement of womens equality. In addition, over ten years ago I authored the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) to help prevent domestic violence here at home. Because of VAWA, cities and towns across the country receive desperately needed funding to fight family violence with dedicated domestic violence police units, intensive domestic violence training for judges, and full-service emergency shelters for women and children.   Despite our efforts, there are too many women in the United States and around the world still suffering from the physical, mental, and emotional scars of violence. We must stand with the international community in condemning violence against women in all of its forms and ensure that American families are safeguarded by fully funding VAWA programs each and every year.  