
            	Senator Biden is Interviewed on CNN Anderson Cooper 360
             October 25, 2006 
 SPEAKERS:  U.S. SENATOR JOSEPH BIDEN (D-DE)  JOHN KING, CNN ANCHOR      KING: More than safe to say the president's message on Iraq has been evolving lately. Also safe to Delaware Senator Joe Biden has long been a tough and consistent critic. He's the ranking Democrat on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. And Senator Biden spoke with us earlier tonight. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)   KING: Senator Biden, the president held court in the East Room today. He went on for more than an hour, almost exclusively about Iraq -- a few other questions. And the president goes before the American people less than two weeks before the midterm elections, when -- read any public opinion poll -- the American people don't think the United States is winning, and they're not sure this president has a plan. He said flatly today that he does have a plan; the United States is winning. Let's listen.   (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) GEORGE W. BUSH, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: We're winning and we will win, unless we leave before the job is done. And the crucial battle, right now, is Iraq. And, as I said in my statement, I understand how tough it is, really tough. (END VIDEO CLIP)   KING:  Really tough, Senator Biden, but he says the United States  is winning.  Do you agree?      BIDEN: No, if he means that we're -- we're making progress in Iraq. And I have been there seven times, as recently as this summer. I don't know any generals that are saying that. No one said that to me on the ground. They said there's a need for radical change in the political climate there.   KING: One of the things he also said is that he trusts the Maliki government. But are you confident in the leadership of Prime Minister Maliki and his ability to improve the security situation?   BIDEN: No, I'm not. And I met with him. I told him I wasn't. I asked him what he was going to do about the distribution of revenues to get the Sunnis to buy into a united government. He said there was no need to do anything. I asked what -- because he said it was -- quote -- already in the constitution, which it's not. And I asked him what he was going to do about the whole notion of federalism, and -- which is in the constitution -- and he said: Well, we don't need any constitutional amendments. I asked him what he was going to do about dealing with the militia, and he said what he said publicly later. He said: We're not going to deal with them this year, with the death squads. In the meantime, our guys and women are in the middle, getting killed.   KING: The president was talking about the political debate about Iraq, and who should be held accountable. And he patted his chest and he said that he should be held accountable in the end. But he was also asked whether he had confidence, as a man who has said he would have accountability in his government, in the secretary of defense. Listen to what the president said about Donald Rumsfeld. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)   BUSH:  And I'm satisfied of how he's done all his jobs.  He is a  smart, tough, capable administrator.  (END VIDEO CLIP)      KING:  Senator Biden, should the president be satisfied?  And is  Don Rumsfeld a tough, capable administrator?      BIDEN: He should not be satisfied. I don't know one single piece of significant advice that Secretary Rumsfeld has given the president that has turned out to be correct, from the fact we didn't need more troops when we went in -- and we did need them -- from the fact that there wasn't a real insurgency -- they're a bunch of dead-enders -- from the fact that, in fact, we would have enough oil to pay for this war, which we don't. And I don't -- he's a fine man. He's a decent, honorable, patriotic man, but he has been dead wrong, in my view, on every major element of Iraqis -- the U.S. policy towards the war in Iraq.   KING: Do you think, after the election, the president will be open to a much more significant change of course than what we are -- have heard in the past few days? Or do you think he will have to be bullied into it?   BIDEN: I think that the Republicans in the United States Senate and Congress will demand Rumsfeld's resignation privately. I think the president will realize, if he wants to get anything done, he's going to have to accommodate the overwhelming concern among Republicans, who, understandably, in the next 13 days, or 12 days, whatever it is, are not going to say much. I'm not criticizing them for not doing that. It's an election year. But I think you're going to see a fundamental change in heart -- or in -- in -- in -- in voice, after this election is over, assuming the Democrats make significant gains. If they don't, I think our Republican colleagues will read this as the president's policy being reaffirmed, and I think we're in for two very bad years.   KING:  Senator Joseph Biden of Delaware, the ranking Democrat on  the Senate Foreign Relations Committee...      BIDEN:  Thank you.      KING:  ... a man thinking about running for president himself --  Senator, thank you very much.      BIDEN:  Thank you very much.      END   