
            	U.S.  Senator Joe Biden is interviewed by NBCs Matt Lauer immediately following President Bushs press conference on October 25, 2006
             October 25, 2006 
 U.S. Senator Joe Biden is interviewed by NBCs Matt Lauer immediately following President Bushs press conference on October 25, 2006:    (Transcript below)      LAUER: Let's get some reaction to the president's news conference now from Senator Joe Biden, the ranking Democrat on the Foreign Relations Committee.   Senator, good morning to you.      BIDEN:  Good morning.      LAUER: The president laid out -- he went to great lengths to lay out the plan for the foreseeable future in Iraq. He said, We're flexible in our methods, we're refining our training practices for the Iraqi security forces. We've changed our force structure and we're looking for a political solution.   You've outlined a plan for the foreseeable future. What's the biggest difference between what you're saying and what he's saying.   BIDEN: The biggest difference is, I'm specifically saying they have to implement their constitution. They have to, in fact, allow federalism to go forward, which the Iraqi parliament just voted for. They have to give the Sunnis a piece of the oil to get them buy in. And they have to keep the neighbors out.   I didn't hear anything about that from the president. Matter of fact, Matt, the plan he laid out was essentially the same. He said, and I'm reading, train and equip and get the Iraqi security forces up and running, and have independent capability to run their (inaudible).   They're already stood up, 400,000 troops, Matt. I mean, what is new except asking for more time for the same thing? I didn't hear anything new.   LAUER: What about the what if? element of this? How does that differ from what the president's saying and what's you're saying? For example, if the benchmarks aren't met by the security forces and the Iraqi government, the president, I don't believe, laid out anything of a what if?   What would you do?      BIDEN: Well, what I would do is I would take our troops out of there. Look, here's the situation. He says he's working with the Maliki government. Our military, in my seven trips there, our military from the beginning is saying, we've got to go into Sadr City and take on some of the elements in the Mahdi militia, the guy everybody knows about, Sadr.   What did Maliki just say? He held a press conference yesterday saying they went in to get bad guys, that's not going to happen again.   He talks about being on the same page as Maliki. Maliki told me that he doesn't think we need any amendment to the constitution to give oil revenues or distribute them.   LAUER:  But you would pull...(cross talk)      BIDEN:  I don't know... (cross talk)      LAUER: Senator, you would pull the troops out even if it would result in a situation that the president just described, it would look like Afghanistan under the Taliban?   BIDEN: By the way, it will look terrible if we pull out. But here is the option: Do we stay in the middle of a civil war, with no plan, draining our treasure and our blood, for the only purpose of keeping it from getting worse indefinitely? Or do we pull our troops out, reposition them and get a regional agreement as to how you contain this?   Look, I think there's still a chance to make this work, Matt. The way to make it work is get a political solution, insist that one take place. But as long as you let Maliki run the show here, what's going to happen is our guys and women are just fodder, and we're going to continue to drain tens of billions of dollars down a rat hole.   What is the president's political plan as to how he's going to get us to the point of victory -- victory meaning being able to responsibly leave, not having traded a dictator for chaos, which is on the horizon.   LAUER:  Senator Joe Biden, the ranking Democrat on the Foreign  Relations.      Senator, thank you very much.  I appreciate your time.      BIDEN:  Thanks an awful lot, Matt.  I appreciate it.      END     