
            	Senator Biden is Interviewed by Meredith Vieira on NBC Today Show
             October 25, 2006 
 Vieira: Joseph Biden is the top ranking democrat on the foreign relation committee and is pushing his own plan for Iraq. The bush administration says it is no longer going to take steak. Do you believe -- to stay the course. Do you believe that's a change in policy or rhetoric? I know you said I hope it's real. What do you mean?   Biden: So far it's just rhetoric. If they change the policy, what are they waiting so long for. I have been in Iraq 7 times. On the 4th of July I was told by general Casey we were going to turn Iraqi over to the Iraqis by the end of this year. They still stick with this idea as soon as we stand up Iraqi troops, we stand down. There are 400,000 Iraqis that have been stood up. The question is: how do you get them to stand together? That requires a political solution. That's why i put out this plan. I know we don't have time to talk about it. But it's on my website planforiraq.Com.   Vieira: Let's talk about your plan. You want to redeploy the troops within 18 months and replace that with a political to divide the country?   Biden: No, not dividing the country.       Vieira: Well, it's creating 3 regions for the Sunnis, Shiites and the Kurds?       Biden: Not quite.       Vieira: You want to federalize the country?       Biden: Yes, just like our government is federalized and our states have control over local laws with their own local police forces.   Vieira: How are you going to do that? These people are killing each other. You said it's a civil war and you have no confidence in Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki. How do you pull this off?   Biden: You have to tell Nuri al-Maliki what they have to do. The Iraqi parliament 3 weeks ago voted to put in place a federal system to set it up. The big missing piece is the constitution also promises that the Sunnis will get an equal share of the oil. That was expected to be a constitutional amendment guaranteeing the Sunnis their fair share of oil.   Vieira: Where is your stick? Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki doesn't do what you want to do?       Biden: We leave in they don't. [Overlapping talking] you listen to them and whisper in their ear and say straighten it out or you are on your own. I won't have our kids getting killed because these guys won't do what their own constitution calls for.   Vieira: If the democrats win the mid-term elections and it's looking good in the house. The senate is up for grabs. What would you try to force the president to do that he is not doing? Would you want a deadline in Iraq?   Biden: No, what I want and what will happen I redistrict and I wrote about it -- what will happen I predict and I wrote about it, we will have a bipartisan effort. If we win, it will be clear to the president he can't sustain this non-policy. And bipartisanly, I think we can put collective pressure and discussion on the president to get him to change course so we can responsibly leave Iraq leaving something intact behind when we leave.   Vieira: Quickly too, Senator, the recent poll with the New York Times and -- Im sorry NBC and the Wall Street Journal. The Republican Party was viewed by 32 percent of those who were polled, but the Democratic Party was only viewed positively by 37 percent. If you win, it's not because they like you, it's just because they don't like the republicans.   Biden: Well, I think that's true. The burden will be on the Democratic Party to lead. We have to be bolder with the American people. We have to layout our priorities and trust the American people to make hard choices. They are ready. If we win and we walk away from leadership, then we will have squandered our responsibility as badly as the republicans have. I am confident we can step up to the ball. But the American people have not decided where to deal yet. They decided the republicans are not worth it. They have not decided we are. It's our obligation to be straightforward and tell them our plans and make hard choices and let the chips fall where they may. That's called leadership.   Vieira: Thank you very much. Here's matt.    