
            	Senator Biden is Interviewed on CBS Early Show
             December 26, 2006 
 HARRY SMITH, CBS ANCHOR      SMITH: America's top generals in Iraq are reportedly now backing a plan to send more U.S. troops to that country. Senate Democratic Leader Harry Reid says he could go along with it, but other Democrats aren't so sure, including the next chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Senator Joe BIDEN, who joins us this morning.   Good morning, sir.      BIDEN:  Good morning, Harry.  How are you?      SMITH:  I'm doing all right.      Just looking at the news this morning -- listening to Randall Pinkston's report -- when another half dozen U.S. soldiers killed just today, dozens more Iraqis killed; this goes on and on. We're waiting for some sense of what is the next step from the president.   If the president says, Yes, let's do this surge, put another 20,000, 30,000 soldiers in there for the short term, will he get your support on this?   SMITH: No, he won't, Harry. We've tried this before. We've tried it several times before, as early as this summer. It failed for a simple reason -- not for the lack of valor on the part of our soldiers. They go in, they occupy the neighborhoods. They can't stay; they pull out. Iraqi troops come in. They're not trusted. They can't keep order. All these folks come back in -- militia come back in, occupy the neighborhoods again.   We've tried it. It's failed. We need a political settlement, Harry. We should be drawing down troops, putting pressure on the Iraqi government to settle their sectarian differences rather than putting more troops in and acting as apartheid cops.   SMITH: Everybody talks about this political solution and that ball really ends up in Nouri al-Maliki's court. Is he a guy who can do this? Can he pull this off somehow?   BIDEN:  I'm not sure he can.  I don't think by himself he can.      I met with Maliki this summer, and I met with him after that as well. I don't think -- I'm not sure he has the will, but I don't think he has the capability.   And I think the only thing to do here, Harry, is have the -- all the Iraqi leadership -- Sunni, Kurd and Shia -- stare down the barrel of their own guns and decide what their going to do, but not put our troops in the middle of it.   SMITH:  Am I hearing you say...      BIDEN:  They have to decide.      SMITH: ... Pull back. Let them have them stare themselves down and say, 'You want a civil war, have your civil war,' and then they have to make a decision whether or not to save themselves?   BIDEN: Well, I think that's exactly right. Look, we cannot want peace in Iraq more than the Iraqis want peace in Iraq. And up till now, we have 140,000 plus troops in Iraq. We essentially act as apartheid cops. We make sure that this doesn't get fully blown out of shape into a full-blown civil war that spills over the borders. And they get -- each of those political leaders get what they want, and that is they stay their place.   We've got to give them breathing room. We've got to do what we talked about before -- let the federal system work, give the Sunnis a piece of the oil. If they don't come to that conclusion, we can't save them.   SMITH: I think what happens, though -- you know, the old, You broke it, you own it, sort of scenario. If we were to pull back and have all-out civil war to actually occur there, then would be -- would we not be in even worse shape than we were before?   BIDEN: No. Well, look, let me put it another way. If we stay the course, add more troops, try what we've done before, it seems to me we're in the worst of all circumstances -- the continued attrition and death of thousands of American soldiers and wounded American soldiers, no end in sight, no political agreement, nothing forcing them to have to reach an agreement among themselves.   And we have to make clear, they have to have a political -- I'm not saying pull everything out. I'm saying what the Baker commission said -- start a drawdown. And make it clear to them by the end of next year we're not going to be there to save them. They have got to begin to make some hard political decisions. We can't solve it for them with 30,000 more troops.   SMITH: One of the things the commission said is that we should be negotiating or at least having conversation with Iran, with Syria. Apparently, there's some captured Iranians that the Iraqis claim were there at their invitation. How big of a problem could this end up being?   BIDEN: Well, I think it's an additional irritant. We have to be prepared to talk about any subject and on any level with all of the neighbors. Because, look, you point out, Harry, if this thing completely falls apart and we end up in a circumstance where there's a civil war that is causing the neighbors to conclude they've got to get more deeply involved, then you've got a regional war, and that's the worst of all circumstances.   We should be talking to the neighbors; all the neighbors should be talking to one another. The Baker commission got it right. Those should be under way. They'll be difficult. They may be impossible. But they're necessary to start an attempt to get under way what we're going to do to contain this problem inside Iraq.   SMITH: Here's my -- I'm curious, as we get ready to start the new year, soon to be this Democratically controlled Congress, how much a difference do you think it's going to make in terms of day-to-day foreign policy with this administration?   BIDEN: Well, I think the only difference will be we'll have extensive hearings. They'll be a lot of oversight in each of the committees. And we will be bringing on witnesses for and against and agnostic about the administration's policy, and hopefully educate the American people as to exactly what's going on in this administration.   And maybe, maybe in turn, put enough pressure on the administration to begin to make the kind of course change that the Baker commission, myself, and many others have been pushing for over a year.   SMITH:  Senator Joe BIDEN, as always, we thank you for your time  this morning.  Thank you, sir.      BIDEN:  Thank you, Harry.      SMITH:  Good holiday to you.      END   