
            	Senator Biden Receives Top Rating From Leading Hispanic Groups
             July 26, 2005 
 Washington, DC  In recognition of his leadership and commitment to providing a better quality of life for all Latinos, U.S. Senator Joe Biden (D-DE) today was awarded the highest possible rating from the National Hispanic Leadership Agenda (NHLA). The NHLA compiled the legislative scorecard to inform Latino voters about the performance of federal legislators on issues of importance to Hispanic communities. Senator Bidens perfect score of 100% reflects his ongoing commitment to addressing the needs of Latino families and his dedication to protecting our communities.   This is a real honor for me, said Senator Biden. Like the rest of the country, the Hispanic community in Delaware is fast-growing, socially conscious and politically active. From Georgetown to Wilmington, they represent the best of Delawares hard working families, united by a common past and a promising future.   The NHLA scorecard is based on votes on a diverse set of issues that have a direct impact on Hispanics and their families. Senator Biden consistently voted in favor of helping the Hispanic community move ahead on issues ranging from education, health care, economic mobility, workforce and civil rights.   The issues that are most important to Hispanic families are the same ones that are most important to all our families: improving public education, providing access to affordable health care, and making sure our country remains safe at home and strong in the world, said Senator Biden. These are my top priorities. As long as people of Delaware continue to entrust me as their senator, I will continue working to achieve these goals.   Founded in 1991, the NHLA is a non-partisan coalition of national public policy and civil rights organizations and leaders from across the United States, whose mission is to provide the Hispanic community with greater visibility and a clearer stronger voice in our nations affairs.   According to the latest census data, there are more than 45,913 persons of Hispanic origin living in Delaware today. To view the NHLA scorecard online, visit: http://www.aspira.org/  