
            	Biden and Kennedy Continue Push to Keep C-5 Viable Part of Nation's Strategic Airlift
             March 26, 2007 
 WASHINGTON, DC -?  U.S. Senators Joe Biden (D-DE) and Ted Kennedy (D-MA)  continued to fight last week to ensure that the United States military  base any decisions to retire C-5As on factual test data.   In a letter to the Chairmen of the Senate Defense Appropriations and Armed Services Committees, the two Senators argued the importance of making a fact-based decision about the future of the aircraft, and rejected efforts to alter the law they wrote that requires testing and evaluation of a fully modernized C-5A before any may be retired.     Senator Biden and Kennedy sent the letter in response to recent testimony by Air Force leaders seeking the authority to retire some C-5 A-models without knowing how effective the reliability enhancement and re-engining program (RERP) will be.  The RERP is designed to make A and B model C-5s almost identical.  Senators Biden and Kennedy believe that until the Air Force knows if that result is possible, it is critical to keep the entire C-5 fleet available to meet the nation's strategic airlift needs.  The text of the letter follows:     Dear Mr. Chairman:  We understand that the Air Force leadership is seeking the repeal or amendment of a provision we sponsored in the Fiscal Year 2004 Department of Defense Authorization Act (P.L. 108-136, Sec. 132) prohibiting the retirement of C-5As until operational testing and evaluation of a fully modernized A-model (with both the Avionics Modernization Program, AMP, and the Reliability Enhancement and Re-engining Program, RERP) is tested, and an operational assessment provided to the congressional defense committees.  We strongly object to any repeal or amendment.  It is imperative that Congress have factual data about the C-5 before making a multi-billion dollar decision regarding the future of the strategic airlift fleet.  Instead of taking measures to mitigate the gap between when the C-17 line must begin to shut down and when the Air Force will have the C-5A data, the Air Force chose to delay C-5 modernization efforts, failed to provide dedicated C-5A test aircraft for AMP testing, and started testing on B-models first.  While we regret this situation, we cannot endorse any action that allows for an uninformed decision on retiring C-5As.    As our ground forces expand, it is vital that we update the Mobility Capabilities Study to determine how much strategic airlift the nation needs.  It seems very likely that additional strategic airlift may be needed even with a fully modernized C-5 fleet.  It is also important to recognize that the C-5 and C-17 are complementary aircraft.  As we cannot procure new C-5s, we must be careful not to prematurely lose their unique capabilities, even if we decide to add to the C-17 fleet.    The Air Force plan of record for at least a decade has been to fully modernize the entire C-5 fleet.  That plan is based on numerous studies showing that the C-5A and B models will be sound for flight operations until 2040.  The Fleet Viability Board confirmed this, as did the tear down, or invasive inspection, done by the Air Force to an A-model.  The plan is also based on expected performance gains and cost savings over the life of the aircraft.  Basic cost-benefit analysis has shown that fully modernizing the entire C-5 fleet will create $49.8 billion worth of operation and sustainment savings.  The total production cost for modernization is $11.6 billion; this is a sound investment, in our judgment, as it will yield $38.2 billion in net savings.  Along with those savings comes the ability to carry more cargo, fly greater distances, and make use of the most efficient air space (complying with new air traffic rules and creating additional fuel savings).   In other words, we can increase the capability of the fleet, and save four dollars for every dollar invested.  At this point, there is no evidence to indicate that the C-5As will be any less capable than the C-5Bs once modernized.   We should make an informed decision - based on a full understanding of how C-5As will perform after full modernization - before retiring a proven system.  In sum, we would strongly object to any effort to make a decision to retire the C-5A without data to support such a decision.   