
            	BIDEN:  Annapolis Conference Offers Hope, But Middle East Peace Process Requires Active Engagement and Follow-through
             November 26, 2007 
  Washington, DC - Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Joseph R. Biden, Jr. (D-DE) issued the following statement today on the eve of the Annapolis Middle East Conference: "The Annapolis Conference offers hope: the hope of re-starting a stalled peace process, transforming the lives of Israelis and Palestinians for the better and securing American interests in the Middle East and beyond.  I commend Prime Minister Olmert and President Abbas for their personal courage in pushing ahead in the face of serious threats from extremists.  "Now is the time for the Arab states, in particular, to step up and show the same degree of courage as Olmert and Abbas.  If they mean what they say in supporting a two-state solution, they should begin normalizing relations with Israel.  The oil-rich Gulf States should also use their windfall profits to urgently support Prime Minister Fayad's government. "I support the Administration's decision to invite Syria to Annapolis.  This presents an opportunity to weaken the Syrian-Iranian marriage of convenience.  Syria has to be engaged and tested - is it willing to end its interference in Lebanon and its support for terrorism in Iraq and the Palestinian territories?  If so, then the US should actively support a resumption of the Syrian-Israeli track instead of telling the Israelis not to talk to Damascus.   "But none of these opportunities will automatically translate into progress without the kind of sustained, continuous presidential leadership that this Administration has thus far shown little interest in or aptitude for.  It is not enough to hold a conference or give a speech and then drop the issue for months on end.  The peace process requires day in, day out engagement, starting with the President.  I would urge the President to make his first trip in office to Israel and the Palestinian territories so that he can play a more informed and active role in pushing the process forward. "We have seen what inattention brings:  Hamas in control of Gaza, political turmoil in Lebanon, and the emboldening of extremists across the region.  A failure to follow through after Annapolis will bring more of the same.   "The hard part begins now.  The President will have to put the full weight of his office behind a renewed peace process.  Otherwise, the promise of Annapolis will become yet another squandered opportunity." 