
            	BIDEN Legislation Gets to the Heart of the Nation's Nursing Crisis
             October 26, 2007 
 Legislation Provides Opportunity to Establish a Doctoral Nursing Program in Delaware   Washington, DC - U.S. Senator Joseph R. Biden, Jr. (D-DE) introduced the Nursing Education Opportunities Act (S.2230), legislation designed to alleviate the current nurse and nursing school faculty shortage in this country.  The United States is facing a critical shortage of nurses, but Sen. Biden's legislation will help train and employ 100,000 new nurses in the workforce over the next five years.  The Nursing Education Opportunities Act raises the yearly loan amounts allowed under the Nursing Student Loan Program; provides funds for academic institutions to establish doctoral nursing degree programs; and establishes pilot projects to allow nursing schools to share faculty and resources and partner with health facilities to give employed nurses a chance to pursue an advanced degree and eventually teach.   "Nurses play one of the most important roles in our nation's healthcare system - they make the difference in how patients are taken care of and how they recover," said Sen. Biden.  "Unfortunately, we're facing a real shortage of nurses and nursing school faculty in our country today, and our nation's hospitals will continue to face tremendous hurdles as nurses retire, baby boomers age and the need for healthcare grows."   In 2007, the American Hospital Association reported that hospitals in the United States had an estimated 116,000 registered nurse vacancies as of December 2006.  Despite the nurse shortage and efforts to increase the pool of qualified nurses, schools of nursing struggle to increase student capacity.  According to the American Association of Colleges of Nursing (AACN), the United States' nursing schools turned away nearly 43,000 qualified applicants in 2006, primarily due to an insufficient number of faculty.  A wave of retirements is expected in the next decade as an aging nursing school faculty population begins to retire.  In fact, a 2007 survey by the Association of Academic Health Centers found that chief executive officers from academic health centers rated the nursing faculty shortage as the most severe of all health professions.   To respond to this growing nursing shortage and to attract and retain high-quality nurses, the Nursing Education Opportunities Act will increase the maximum yearly loan amount available through the Nursing Student Loan Program.  The Public Health Services Act authorized a number of programs to support health professions and nursing schools and students, and Sen. Biden's legislation will explicitly allow accelerated degree nursing students to be eligible for those loans and other financial assistance programs.  Students in accelerated degree programs are those with a baccalaureate degree in another field, who have decided to return to school to get a degree in nursing.  The students in these programs have difficulty securing federal funding as this program category is not easily defined.   In states like Delaware, where no doctoral nursing programs exist, the legislation will provide grants for schools to establish such doctoral nursing programs.  In the case of a nurse faculty shortage, the legislation will allow the Secretary of Health and Human Services to raise the cap on the percentage of traineeships available for individuals in doctoral degree nursing programs through the Advanced Education Nursing Grants.   "We applaud Sen. Biden for this initiative to address the nursing shortage with funding initiatives for returning adult students and for meeting Delaware's longtime need for a doctoral program in nursing.  These issues are not being addressed in previous bills," said Dr. Betty Paulanka, Dean of the College of Health Sciences at the University of Delaware.   "The Nursing Education Opportunities Act is a solution to both an immediate and long-term national problem," said Sen. Biden.  "By providing more opportunities now for those nurses wanting to pursue doctoral-degrees, we will be able over time to enroll more nurses into classrooms and put more nurses into the work force."     The Nursing Education Opportunities Act also establishes two pilot programs, the Doctoral Nursing Consortia Pilot Project and the Nurse Faculty Pilot Program.  The Nursing Consortia program will allow schools to establish partnerships to share doctoral faculty and programmatic resources.  The Nurse Faculty Pilot Program, a companion piece to Representative Carolyn McCarthy's (D-NY) legislation in the House of Representatives, the Nurse Faculty Higher Education Act (H.R. 2384), will provide grants to partnerships between accredited nursing schools and health facilities to fund release time to allow qualified nurses to stay in their jobs while also attending school to earn a graduate degree and eventually teach.   "At the heart of the problem is the need for doctoral nurse faculty," said Dr. Jeanette Lancaster, President of the American Association of Colleges of Nursing.  "Schools of nursing across the country report numerous vacancies for these positions.  By providing opportunities for nursing schools to create a doctoral nursing program, share programmatic and faculty resources through a doctoral consortium, and prepare additional nurse educators through the nurse faculty pilot project, Sen. Biden's bill focuses on a long-term solution to the nursing shortage.  Without additional nurse faculty and the means to teach them, we will not be able to educate the next generation of professional baccalaureate nurses."   The American Academy of Nursing, American Association of Colleges of Nursing, American Nephrology Nurses' Association, American Nurses Association, American Organization of Nurse Executives, Association of Women's Health, Obstetric and Neonatal Nurses and National League for Nursing support this legislation. 