
            	Biden Measure Barring Permanent U.S. Bases in Iraq Takes Important Step Forward
             September 26, 2006 
 Washington, DC  Yesterday, House and Senate conferees accepted an amendment to the FY07 Defense Appropriations Bill proposed by Senator Joseph Biden (D-DE) that bars the construction of permanent U.S. military bases in Iraq and American control of Iraqs oil, a key step toward the measures becoming law. Although Biden had successfully attached the provision to three different pieces of legislation in the past, until yesterday, it had never been reported out of conference committee. The bill is likely to be taken up by both houses of Congress this week.    I applaud the conferees for putting both houses of Congress on record as telling the Iraqi people that we have no intention of either maintaining permanent American military bases in Iraq or controlling their oil, Biden said. I have no illusions that this provision will somehow dramatically change the dynamic of events on the ground in Iraq. But the Iraq people remain deeply suspicious of our intentions and are growing increasingly impatient, putting our men and women in uniform in greater danger. This is a message that needs to be proclaimed loudly and regularly and with the stamp of the Congress. The conferees action is an important step toward that end.    If the President signs the bill into law, it will put the United States on record on the issue of permanent bases in Iraq. Although American military and political leadership in Baghdad has said that the United States does not have plans for such bases, senior administration officials in Washington have sent mixed messages. There is no record of President Bush ever explicitly stating that his administration does not seek to establish permanent bases in Iraq, and Secretaries Rumsfeld and Rice have sent mixed signals. Earlier this year, Secretary of Defense Rumsfeld said that the United States had no plans at the present time to establish permanent bases, and Secretary of State Rice refused to categorically state that permanent American bases would not be built at a recent hearing of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.    According to a recent University of Maryland poll, 80 percent of Iraqis (and 92 percent of Sunni Arabs in Iraq) believe that the U.S. intends to have a permanent military presence in their country, thereby contributing to the violence against American military personnel.  