
            	BIDEN: Request to Fund Some MRAPs a Step in the Right Direction, But Still Not Enough
             September 26, 2007 
 Washington, DC - Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee Joseph R. Biden, Jr. (D-DE) was pleased to learn today that the administration would seek additional funds for Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP) vehicles, but was disheartened that the allotted amount would not cover all the vehicles requested by military commanders in Iraq. At a Senate Appropriations Committee hearing earlier today, Secretary of Defense Robert Gates announced that the administration would expand its 2008 military operations funding request to include $11 billion for MRAPs. While substantial, the figure is less than half of the $23.6 billion Senator Biden requested to allow the Army to replace all of its up-armored humvees with MRAPs.   "I have been calling on the Administration to fund MRAPs for over six months, so I am pleased that President Bush has recognized what a critical issue this is," said Senator Biden. "However, when our commanders in the field tell us that these MRAPs will reduce casualties by sixty-seven to eighty percent, I don't understand how this request could so substantially under-fund the building and deployment of these vehicles.  The only way to get more vehicles, faster, is to make the needed funding available immediately.  Providing our troops with the best possible protection should be a shared top priority.  When American lives and limbs are on the line, giving anything less that 100% is not enough."   Sen. Biden has been leading the effort to get more Mine Resistant Vehicles on the ground in Iraq as soon as possible.  His amendment to the Senate's FY 2007 Supplemental Appropriations Bill (March 28, 2007) accelerated MRAP funding by adding $1.5 billion to the emergency spending bill.   As a result, the military can deploy 2,500 more MRAPs six-months sooner than planned. In addition, Sen. Biden has repeatedly called on the Administration to make the construction and deployment of MRAP's and EFP protection a national priority and to investigate the military's failure to field this technology sooner.  