
            	BIDEN:  Administration is Right to Reverse Itself and Engage Iran and Syria
             February 27, 2007 
 WASHINGTON, DC - Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee Joseph R. Biden, Jr. (D-DE) issued the following statement today in response to Sec. Rice's announcement of a new diplomatic initiative to invite Iran and Syria to a 'neighbors meeting' on stabilizing Iraq:  The Administration is right to reverse itself and engage Iran and Syria on Iraq.  Right now, they're a big part of the problem, but they have an interest in becoming part of the solution to prevent chaos in Iraq. I hope this means that clearer heads in the Administration are beginning to prevail.  If the conference is to have any impact on the sectarian violence in Iraq, it must enlist the support of Iraq's neighbors for a political settlement that would decentralize Iraq and give Kurds, Shi'ites and Sunnis control over their daily lives. We don't need a meeting for the sake of meeting - there has to be a clear plan and purpose.   Senator Biden has long been an advocate for engaging Iraq's neighbors, including Iran and Syria.  A cornerstone of the Biden-Gelb plan for Iraq is convening a regional conference of Iraq's neighbors and the world's major powers to promote and enforce a political settlement in Iraq.  Specifically, the Biden-Gelb Five-Point Plan for Iraq calls for:  1) Maintaining a unified Iraq by decentralizing it and giving Kurds, Shiites and Sunnis breathing room in their own regions. The Iraqi constitution already provides for federalism. The central government would be responsible for common interests, like border security and the distribution of oil revenues. 2) Securing support from the Sunnis - who have no oil -- by guaranteeing them a proportionate share (about 20 percent) of oil revenues, allowing former Baathists to go back to work and re-integrating those with no blood on their hands. 3) Increasing economic aid, asking oil-rich Arab Gulf states to fund it, tie assistance to the protection of minority rights and create a jobs program to deny the militia new recruits. 4) Convening a regional conference to enlist the support of Iraq's neighbors and create a Contact Group of the major powers to enforce their commitments. 5) Asking our military for a plan to responsibly withdraw most U.S. forces from Iraq by 2008 - enough time for the political settlement to take hold - while refocusing the mission of a small residual force on counter-terrorism and training Iraqis.  