
            	Sen. Biden Issues Statement on Today's Meeting of the Iraq Study Group
             November 27, 2006 
 Washington, DC  U.S. Senator Joseph R. Biden, Jr. (D-DE) issued the following statement today as the Iraq Study Group (The Baker-Hamilton Commission) meets to discuss its draft report:    As the Baker-Hamilton commission deliberates its recommendations for Iraq today and in the coming days, it faces a tremendous opportunity and responsibility. The opportunity is to generate a bipartisan way forward in Iraq. The responsibility is to make the hard choices required to turn Iraq around.    I advocate  and have advocated directly to the Baker-Hamilton Commission  the need for a political settlement among Iraqs major groups. The best way to get there is through federalism: maintaining a unified Iraq but decentralizing the country and giving Kurds, Shiites and Sunnis breathing room in their own regions. A central government would remain, responsible for the distribution of oil and border security. We would get Sunni buy-in by guaranteeing them a proportionate share of the oil revenues and wed bring the neighbors in to support the political settlement. If we do all these things, we can withdraw most of our troops from Iraq by the end of 2007, with a small residual force to focus on counter-terrorism.    Baker-Hamilton need not embrace the details of my plan, but to garner broad bi-partisan support, it must contend with three of its central points:    First, Baker-Hamilton must tackle the issue of U.S. troop deployments. The best way to get the Iraqis to concentrate on making the hard political decisions and compromises is to make clear to them that the presence of our troops in their present large numbers is not open-ended.    Second, Baker-Hamilton must propose a clear political road map for Iraq. As we redeploy, we must exert maximum pressure on the Iraqis for a sustainable political settlement that deals with federalism, sharing oil revenue and the militias. Redeployment alone is not a plan -- it is a means to help bring about the political settlement needed if we are to avoid a full-blown civil war and regional conflict.    Third, Baker-Hamilton must speak to the engagement of Iraq's neighbors. We should convene an international conference and stand up an oversight group of major countries to support a political settlement in Iraq -- or, if chaos ensues anyway -- to help contain its fallout within Iraq. There can be no sustainable peace in Iraq without the support of its neighbors, including Iran, Syria and Turkey.     If the Baker-Hamilton commission addresses these three issues in detail, it can meet Americans' growing expectations. If it doesnt, it risks forgoing the bipartisan support we need for any plan to leave Iraq responsibly, without trading a dictator for chaos.  