
            	BIDEN Welcomes Israelis and Palestinians Setting Goal for Peace Agreement; Says Measure of Success for Annapolis Lies in Continued Effort
             November 27, 2007 
 Washington, DC - Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee Joseph R. Biden, Jr. (D-DE) issued the following statement today:   "I welcome today's announcement by Prime Minister Olmert and President Abbas that they have set a goal of reaching a peace agreement by the end of 2008.  I also am pleased that the two sides have agreed to an active American role in monitoring performance on their commitments under the road map.   "Olmert and Abbas spoke eloquently today of their peoples' aspirations for peace, security, and freedom.  They understand the daunting challenges ahead and they will need the active support of all the countries and organizations represented at Annapolis.  The Arab states have an especially important role to play in supporting the peace process.  Prime Minister Olmert reached out to them and they should reciprocate now - and not wait until peace is achieved - by demonstrating their commitment to live in peace with Israel.  The oil-rich Gulf states should also significantly increase financial support for Prime Minister Fayad's government.   "The measure of success for Annapolis is whether it marks the beginning of an intense process, not the end of one.  A year is a short time in which to resolve issues which have defied decades of effort and go to the core identity of both peoples.  It will require the kind of sustained, continuous presidential leadership that this Administration has thus far shown little interest in or aptitude for.  It is not enough to hold a conference, give a speech, and then hand the issue off to lower level officials. It will take day in, day out engagement, at the highest levels, starting with the President.   "With today's Joint Understanding between Israelis and Palestinians, I hope the President has seen that he is able to serve as a catalyst for progress through his personal involvement.  Ultimate success will require him to invest even more of his time and put his prestige on the line." 