
            	Senator Biden on CBS Early Show with Hannah Storm
             September 27, 2006 
 Hannah Storm REPORTING: Joe Biden is a senior Democrat on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. Good morning Senator, thanks for joining us, how concerned are you that the war in Iraq has become a cause celebre for jihadists and increased Islamic jihadists around the world?   Biden: Well Im not surprised, I have said that very thing. After visiting Iraq, it's clear it's become a training ground. You talk to our people on the ground, they know that. They have actually exported terror from Iraq. It's essentially a training camp because we have not proceeded initially with enough troops and we haven't shut this thing down. We don't have a political solution. It just festers.   Storm: It goes on to say should the jihadist be perceived to have failed, they may carry on the fight. Winning the war may lessen the threat, and we have had these generals saying we need more time, money and troops to win the war, do you support more troops?   Biden: They need all of those things. The fact of the matter is I called for more troops three and a half years ago. But here's the deal Hannah, we are beyond troops being able to solve this. We need a political solution. That's why you have to move to let this country become federated. Let each of the groups have their own federated states with a central government and share the oil well. That's exactly what they are debating in the Iraqi parliament right now. We should be using all of our influence to see that each of the groups gets a representative share. Thats a political solution. That will be a thing that ends is this civil war. Absent that I don't see enough troops being able to do it.   Storm: This report, the president says was leaked for political reasons with the midterm elections approaching. Do you think that's the case, and do you think this will have an impact on the elections.   Biden: I don't know why it was leaked. I hope the whole report gets put out, by the way. In 2002 the administration gave us part of a report about WMD implying there was something there. When we got the whole report, it was clear there wasn't anything there. I think what will affect the elections, Hannah is when the people pick up their newspaper on election day that morning, if there's still the carnage in the streets of Iraq then it will be clear they have concluded this administration's policy has failed and there will be a political price fort. I don't think the report matters much. I think it matters what's happening between now and then. And the president is wrong, Iraq is in real trouble. It needs a political solution we have increased concerns. Do you think anybody up in Tehran or North Korea is taking serious any threats? This has hurt us badly.   Storm: It's so interesting, Senator Biden this war of words that has ensued this week about the hunt for Osama bin laden. Let's take another look at former president Bill Clinton on FOX News Chris Wallace. (Videoclip) You have that smirk on your face, you think you are so clever, but I had a responsibility for trying to protect this country. I tried and I failed to get bin Laden. I regret it, but i did try.   Storm: There are some who say that Mr. Clinton was trying to demonstrate that the Democrats are tough on terror. What do you think he was trying to do?   Biden: I think he's frustrated and angry. As a public official sometimes when you get put in that spot and you think you are not being treated fairly, you get frustrated. I think that's what that's about. I don't think he went onto the show to say I am going to help the democrats. I think it was -- look, I am going to make my case. I think it was, as they say, personal.   Storm: Senator Hillary Clinton now involved in the war of wards and she is attacking Secretary Rice who called President Clintons statements flatly false. What impact do you think it will have.   Biden: I don't think it will have any impact. She also at powerful figure in our party, a very capable Senator but look the Clintons are in a class by themselves. They are the best known people in the country, if not the world and anything they say or do is going to be hyped. They have a very long record dealing with those on the right. And, you know, I don't blame them for their frustration I don't think it has much impact.   Storm: Thank you for joining us. Now with more here's Harry.     