
            	BIDEN Statement on Protests in Burma
             September 27, 2007 
 Washington, DC -- Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee Joseph R. Biden, Jr. (D-DE) issued the following statement today on the ongoing protests in Burma:   "Today, Burma is in crisis. The generals who illegally seized power in 1988 have systematically denied the citizens of Burma their most basic human rights, while in the process bankrupting a once prosperous nation and driving hundreds of thousands to seek refuge in neighboring countries.  They have locked up Aung San Suu Kyi, the Nobel Peace Prize winner and leader of the democratic movement in Burma, and refused to work with her or the National League for Democracy on a plan for the restoration of democratic civilian rule.   "In the streets of Rangoon, hundreds of thousands of Burmese are peacefully expressing their opposition to the disastrous leadership and failed economic policies of the ruling junta and demanding change.  The courage of these non-violent protestors - monks, students, workers, and teachers - is inspiring.  They deserve the support of the United States and the international community.     "Promoting a peaceful transition to civilian rule in Burma and addressing the massive humanitarian needs there requires a multinational response. The Government of Burma relies heavily on military assistance from China to sustain its grip on power.  It has also exploited unconditional economic aid and investment from China, India, Japan, and Thailand to resist repeated calls for reform from ASEAN, the United States, and the European Union.  Those nations upon whom the Government of Burma continues to rely bear a special responsibility to use their influence to discourage violence against unarmed protestors and to support political and economic reforms.   "The world community will hold accountable the leaders of the State Peace and Development Council (SPDC) for any acts of violence against peaceful protestors.  But the world will also judge harshly those nations that, through their actions or inaction, lend support to the SPDC and fail to add their voices to the courageous chorus of Burmese citizens.    "At this critical juncture, I urge the United States government to work with China, India, Japan, the members of ASEAN and the world community on a strong, coordinated approach to encourage peaceful change in Burma and meet the enormous humanitarian needs of the Burmese people.  I call on the Government of Burma to welcome a visit by UN Special Adviser Ibrahim Gambari so that he might continue his efforts to promote dialogue and national reconciliation." 