
            	Senator Biden on MSNBC with Nora ODonnell
             September 27, 2006 
 Nora ODonnell REPORTING: We just heard Senator Clinton defending her husband, saying that if he had that document bin Laden determined to attack he would have acted. Those are fighting words?   Biden: I think they are the truth as well.       ODonnell: What do you make of national intelligence report that was released by the president that says Iraq has become a cause celebre for terrorists around the world?   Biden: It absolutely has a number of us have been saying that for two years. The fact of the matter, this has weakened us greatly and emboldened them and I hope they release the whole report. They released part of the report in 2002 about WMDs and we got a different perspective when they got the whole report.   ODonnell: What is in the whole report?       Biden: A scathing indictment of the failure of this administration to act appropriately to deal with the situation in Iraq.       ODonnell: The president yesterday said it was naive to think that the Iraq was war a mistake.       Biden: If he said the way in which the war was conducted was a mistake. He could argue that if we did it right it wouldnt have been a mistake but we did it wrong. He went too soon with too few troops and we are without a political solution. There is no possibility of the   ODonnell: The point that the white house has made and why the president wanted it declassified is because he says somebody leaked in an election year. He says that if we left iraq, that would embolden terrorists worldwide, yet some democrats want to leave Iraq early or redeploy. Isn't he right on that point?   Biden: He is right. It is screwed up so badly that you have to deal with it. You have to give them oil revenue and youve got to give them some autonomy and breathing room. The president's failure to have a political alternative in Iraq may result in us having no choice but to leave because we will get caught in the crossfire of a civil war.   ODonnell: I know you have been giving many speeches about the way forward. Some may say that the situation is worsening. This was supposed to be a year of transgressing. We have security forces that don't want to defend Baghdad because they don't want to leave their homes. How is it getting better?   Biden: It's not getting better, its getting much worse. Thats why all the kings horses and all the kings men can't keep this together if the Iraqi people won't stand up. We have to use our pressure to follow flew on the commitment that we implied when they followed through on the constitution. Give the Sunnis 20% of the oil revenues. Let the Shia have control of the local territories, let the local government take over and have a central government like they had in Bosnia where we had 30,000 troops, no one died, 10 years at work, and now theyre ready to become part of Europe.   ODonnell: Do we know whether the majority of the violence in Iraq is caused by al-Qaeda or is caused sectarian violence?       Biden: We know its caused by sectarian violence. I have made seven trips there. Still, if you ask anybody there, any military man or woman, it's a civil war first and foremost. Al-Qaeda and the jihadists do damage, but even if we get rid of every jihadist in the world, we still have a major war in Iraq.   ODonnell: How then, if most of the violence is sectarian and not driven by al-Qaeda, then how would leaving there embolden the terrorists?   Biden: The jihadists are not able to occupy territories with impunity. If we leave with a nonfunctioning government, youll find that the Anbar province will become another Afghanistan with the Taliban because there isnt the capacity of the Iraqis to deal with that.   ODonnell: Senator, Joe Biden. Thanks for joining us on this magnificent day.       Biden: Thank you.    