
            	Senator Biden on FOX News with Bob Sellers
             September 27, 2006 
 Bob Sellers REPORTING: Senator, as you see this unfold, lets refer very quickly to Tony Snow talking about the NIE, which has got some intention, as you know. What your sense about the NIE, and what are the implications for this administration?   Biden: It states the obvious. It states the fact that terrorism is increasing, not diminishing, and that our preoccupation in Iraq and our failure to come up with a political solution has hurt us. It has limited our ability not only to deal with terror, but it has limited our ability to deal with Iran and North Korea. And we are kind of bogged down there. That is why there is a need for fundamental change in policy there.   Sellers: How would you change the policy? Yesterday you talked about how winning in Iraq is key, but you feel this administration does not have that strategy. What strategy would you have to do so if it is not being one there?   Biden: Specifically the strategy I would have is to make sure the constitution is amended in Iraq to guarantee the Sunnis 20% of their oil revenues. That will have them disengage from their insurgency and would give the she had the ability to form a region like the Kurds have so that you give each of the sectional sectarian groups breathing room, kind of like what we did in the Dayton Accords. We allowed the Serbs, the Croats and the Bosniacs, to have some space as well as other groups. Now 10 years later after 30,000 American troops being there, not a single troop killed, bringing the constitution further to have one president. We have to do the same kind of thing. A political solution is necessary to end the civil war in Iraq.   Sellers:  essentially you are saying three countries then, correct?       Biden: No, no.      Sellers: what incentive would have to govern together if you are setting up separate -- separate areas and guaranteed one of those areas revenue from the oil.   Biden: You guarantee all three areas revenue from oil. Other nations, they will not invest the $35 billion needed in that structure unless it is a united country and they have a plan. So the incentive is to get the oil revenue. They will get much more revenue by giving the cities a piece of it by getting the international community to invest. Secondly if you allow these regions to have autonomy, in the state  -- in the same way that the state of matter Maryland in the state of Delaware have their own police forces, you allow, you force militia groups in their own areas to compete for their own areas. The city of Baghdad is called for to be a federal city like Washington, D.C., with a government that has control over the borders, their national army and distribution of revenues. The Shia know that the Iranians are going to take some of the break apart, that the Turks are going to be taking a piece of it. And the Turks will be nothing  and the Sunnis know they will be left with nothing but al Qaeda.   Sellers: Lets talk about at dinner tonight. We know it is going to be interesting. What needs to be done to get them working together? I just want to point out that the bad guys here, the bad guys in the mountains are creating terrorism, so these are not the bad guys. We need to work with them and the need to work with each other. How do we accomplish that?   Biden: We accomplished that by putting more troops in Afghanistan president Musharraf is for full we are going to lose Afghanistan. He is cutting his deal with the most radical elements of his country, which are very radical   Sellers:  Would you are suggesting more American troops?       Biden: Absolutely.       Sellers: how many more?       Biden: We made a serious mistake by not putting as many troops as were originally called for. You cannot leave this to the warlords. You cannot be this to the opium producers. What happens now is if you notice as Iraq becomes more unstable, president Musharraf say it -- feels to stay with -- to stay in power, he had to cut a deal with the Taliban. He had to cut a deal with Waziristan, the ungovernable province. The degree to which Musharraf looks at us in the west, and balding and strengthening Karzai is the degree to which he would be willing to take more action against the Taliban and al Qaeda.   Sellers:  Senator Biden, thank you, sir.     