
            	BIDEN Legislation to Counter a Terrorist Nuclear Attack Passes Senate
             September 27, 2007 
 Washington, DC - Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee Joseph R. Biden Jr.'s (D-DE) legislation requiring a report on how the United States will determine the origin of any terrorist nuclear weapon, and authorizing the Department of Energy to enter into agreements with foreign countries to collect information for this purpose, passed the Senate as part of a managers' amendment to the Department of Defense authorization bill.  Senator Biden's legislation will help the United States collect information on all of the world's nuclear material in order to increase the likelihood that if a weapon is used in an attack or seized at a border crossing, it can be traced back to its country of origin.  "We deterred a nuclear attack during the Cold War by clearly and credibly threatening retaliation, but it will be far more difficult to deter terrorist groups that have little to lose," said Senator Biden. "Luckily, a would-be nuclear terrorist cannot make the ingredients for a modern-day Hiroshima by himself. Either a state will have to give or sell him a bomb or the nuclear material to make one, or the terrorist will have to steal the material.  That's why it's critical we build up our technology to enable us to read - and trace back to the country of origin - the unique fingerprint of those nuclear ingredients. That's the first step - the second is to make it abundantly clear that we will hold accountable any country that contributes to a terrorist nuclear attack by letting others obtain one of its weapons, major components of a weapon, or the material for a weapon.  That's one of the best ways to prevent a catastrophic attack from occurring in the first place."   "The United States must also do more to help other countries secure their nuclear materials and stop using fissile material in peaceful nuclear power programs.  Both accountability and assistance are needed to reduce the threat of nuclear terrorism," added Senator Biden. 