
            	SEN. JOE BIDEN Issues Statement in Response to President Bush's Speech on Iraq
             August 28, 2007 
   BIDEN: "The President says we have to stay in Iraq to fight extremists - but the fact is, his misguided and mismanaged war has fueled extremists in Iraq, Afghanistan and beyond."  Washington, DC - Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee Joseph R. Biden, Jr. (D-DE) issued the following statement today following President Bush's speech in Reno, Nevada to the American Legion Convention: "Today, President Bush gave the second of two speeches on Iraq to set the stage for the progress report General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker will deliver to Congress in September. Last week, in his first speech, the President compared Iraq to Vietnam.   The lesson he drew, apparently, is that we didn't stay in Vietnam long enough. I don't think too many Americans read history the same way.   "Today, the President argued that we have to stay in Iraq to fight extremists. But the fact is his misguided and mismanaged war has fueled extremists in Iraq, Afghanistan and beyond. Last month, the intelligence community released a National Intelligence Estimate on "The Terrorist Threat to the U.S. Homeland."   It was a devastating indictment of the Administration's failure to accomplish its most important mission: destroying Al Qaeda and the threat it poses.    "The Al Qaeda we failed to finish off in Afghanistan and Pakistan because we went into Iraq has "regenerated." It remains intent on attacking us at home.   That should have put to rest once and for all the false refrain President Bush keeps repeating that we're fighting them over there in Iraq so we don't have to fight them here.'   "That same NIE spotlighted the danger posed by "Al Qaeda in Iraq," a group independent of, but now affiliated with Osama bin Laden's Al Qaeda. The President likes to confuse the American people by conflating "Al Qaeda in Iraq" with the terrorists who attacked us on 9/11.   They are not one and the same. In fact, "Al Qaeda in Iraq" did not exist before we went into Iraq - it is a Bush-fulfilling prophecy.   "That doesn't mean it isn't doing incredible damage. "Al Qaeda in Iraq" took Al Qaeda's name and some of its tactics, but it is focused on wreaking havoc in Iraq, not attacking America - for now. And it has helped the Al Qaeda that did attack us on 9/11 energize extremists around the world, raise money and recruit new terrorists.    "We'll be hearing a lot about the "surge" over the next several weeks, but remember its purpose: to buy time for the central government in Iraq to get its act together and win the trust of all Iraqis.    "That will not happen.    "Absent an occupation which we cannot sustain or the return of a dictator which we cannot support; Iraq cannot be governed from the center at this point in its history. There is no trust within the government, no trust of the government by the people, no capacity by the government to deliver security and services, and no prospect it will build that trust and capacity any time soon.   "I've been making that case for over a year. And so have more and more experts, in and out of government. Back in November, CIA director Michael Hayden made this very point in a private meeting with the Iraq Study Group. He said "the inability of the [central] government to govern is irreversible." There is no "milestone or checkpoint where we can turn this thing around," he said. "We have spent a lot of energy and treasure creating a government... that cannot function."   "Last week, our entire intelligence community came to the same conclusion. The National Intelligence Estimate on Iraq found that "Iraqi political leaders remain unable to govern effectively" and predicted that "the Iraqi government will become more precarious over the next six to twelve months."   "I have a plan that offers the possibility, not the guarantee, of promoting stability in Iraq as we leave. It's based on the reality that Iraq cannot be governed from the center. Instead, we have to give its warring factions breathing room in their own regions, with control over the fabric of their daily lives - police, education, jobs, marriage, religion.     "A limited central government would be in charge of truly common concerns, including protecting Iraq's borders and distributing oil revenues. More and more of my Democratic colleagues now agree that what I'm proposing may be the best possible outcome in Iraq - but they don't want to impose it on the Iraqis.   "The good news is: we don't have to. The federal system at the heart of my plan is already in Iraq's constitution and in its laws. We should refocus our efforts on making federalism work for all Iraqis. I'd initiate a diplomatic offensive to do just that, bringing in the U.N., major countries and Iraq's neighbors to help implement and oversee the political settlement I'm proposing.    "It is past time to make Iraq's the world's problem, not just our own." 