
            	Biden Statement on Nomination of Ambassador Khalilzad
             March 28, 2007 
  Washington, DC - Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee (SFRC) Joseph R. Biden, Jr. (D-DE) issued the following statement today following the unanimous vote in SFRC to approve the nomination of Ambassador Zalmay Khalilzad to be the Permanent Representative of the United States to the United Nations:     For more than a year, I have urged the Administration to submit to the Senate a nominee for Ambassador to the United Nations who could be readily confirmed - an effective and experienced person who would have broad bipartisan support, who could rebuild damaged relationships at the United Nations, and who could reach out to a wide range of members to protect and advance our interests.    Zalmay Khalilzad is such a candidate.  First in Afghanistan, now in Iraq - arguably the two most difficult assignments in the world - Ambassador Khalilzad has done a remarkable job   He has demonstrated an ability to build coalitions and has represented well our interests under extremely difficult conditions.  I am confident that he will provide strong representation for the United States in New York, where building consensus among diverse interests is just as important to achieving success for our foreign policy objectives.  We have a lot on the agenda at the UN.  Darfur is at the top on the list.  We have to stop talking and start acting.  The people of Darfur don't have more time; they are dying every day and every hour.  Ambassador Khalilzad will need to be a strong force in translating international outrage into real action to end the genocide.  No less important is the Iranian nuclear program.  If the events with North Korea have proven anything, it is that no nonproliferation strategy can be effective without the cooperation of the international community and effective American leadership.  When the UN speaks with one voice, member states must pay attention.  We cannot let Tehran divide the Security Council and escape accountability for rejecting U.N. resolutions on its nuclear program.  Having a UN Ambassador who does not play into the Iran's hands by alienating potential allies will strengthen our position.  The UN remains in vital need of reform, particularly in the areas of management, budget and personnel.  The changes that resulted from the Helms-Biden legislation in the late 1990s were significant, but more needs to be done so that the UN can be more effective.  I am encouraged by the progress that has been made since UN Members endorsed a long list of reforms at the High Level Summit in 2005.  Secretary General Annan and member states followed through by creating an ethics office, implementing a whistleblower policy, issuing a new financial disclosure policy and forming an Independent Oversight Advisory Committee.  We should acknowledge that progress, just as we recognize that more must be done.     Under the leadership of Secretary General Ban, I expect this reform to continue, I am encouraged by the statements he has made in his first months in office, and by his decision to publicly disclose his personal financial records.  We need a UN Ambassador who can both support and challenge the Secretary General to make the tough decisions on reform.  We also need an Ambassador who can work well with other member states to get the job done.  Reform is difficult, but it is also necessary and achievable.     Ambassador Khalilzad is a good choice for the UN, and I believe he will serve us well in New York.  I support his nomination, and look forward to continuing to work closely with him. 