
            	Biden Receives Guardian Award from the Partnership for a Drug Free America
             September 28, 2007 
     Award Recognizes Members of Congress for their Dedicated Work to Combat Substance Abuse Across the Nation Washington, DC - The Partnership for a Drug Free America honored U.S. Senator Joseph R. Biden, Jr. (D-DE) this week with the 2007 Guardian Award for his support and leadership on issues related to substance abuse.     "It's an honor to receive this award, but the Partnership is the group that should be recognized for its tireless commitment to keep America's families and communities safe by vigorously pushing what we know works:  education and prevention," said Sen. Biden.  "Together, we've raised awareness about the dangers of homemade meth labs, rave drugs, steroids in sports, and the scourge of prescription and over-the-counter drug abuse.  We've come a long way together, but we've got to do much more and keep our eye on the ball.  I look forward to continuing the close working relationship with the Partnership in combating existing drug threats and those that have yet to emerge."   "We are proud to honor Senator Biden with the 2007 Guardian Award, in recognition of his 30-year commitment to innovative drug policy solutions and his deep conviction to protect America's youth," said Steve Pasierb President and CEO of the Partnership for a Drug-Free America. "Through his efforts to further substance abuse research initiatives and secure funding for prevention programs like the National Youth Anti-Drug Media Campaign, Joe Biden has led the charge in Congress on a variety of drug threats. He is an invaluable ally and we are deeply grateful for his leadership on the drug issue."   Throughout his Senate career, Sen. Biden has been an innovative leader on the issues of crime and drugs.  He chairs both the Caucus on International Narcotics Control and the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime and Drugs.  In addition, he worked to create the position of the nation's Drug Czar and has fought hard to support the National Youth Anti-Drug Media Campaign and other prevention and treatment efforts.   