
            	Senator Joseph R. Biden, Jr.Opening statement on India Nuclear Legislation Senate Foreign Relations Business MeetingJune 29, 2006
             June 29, 2006 
 WASHINGTON, DC  U.S. Senator Joseph R. Biden, Jr. (D-DE) delivered the following statement today in the Senate Foreign Relations business meeting:   Its become a clich to speak of the US-India relationship as a bond between the worlds oldest democracy and the worlds largest democracy. A clich, but also a fact. Shared political values are the foundation for this relationshipbut if that were the whole story, it wouldnt have taken us six decades to get to where we are now.   For much of Indias existence as an independent state, political structures were trumped by geopolitical ones: democratic India was often closer to the Soviet Union, while the US often favored Indias rival Pakistanparticularly during the most un-democratic phases in that nations history.   This alignment may turn out to have been an anomaly of the Cold War. But its a useful reminder that political structures are not always in neat accord with national interests. For the US and India today, however, our national interests are in concert  perhaps more so than at any time in the past.   We are both status quo powers  at least regarding territory -- in that neither of us has a claim to any neighboring piece of real estate.   We face similar challenges from extremists and terroristsin many cases, the very same terrorist groups and individuals.      We share a common desire for stability and the spread of liberal democracy throughout Asia and, indeed, throughout the world.    Economically, the picture is a little more complex, but still very bright. India is rapidly taking its place in the global economy: a place finally in line with the size and talents of its population. Thats good for India, good for many American businesses  and, if we view this as an opportunity rather than a threat, it could turn out to be a boon for American workers too.   In the 1960s, the US brought the Green Revolution to India: American agricultural know-how helped India feed its people. That was good for India, and good for us.   Now India faces a burgeoning need for energyand this too can be an opportunity. What if American business really put its shoulder to the wheel on development of alternate energy sources? What if we made a real effort to find economically viable ways to move beyond fossil fuels?   Why shouldnt we treat this as a cause for optimism? If we can use the energy demand in India to jump-start our own quest for alternate energy sourceswell, thats something that should bring a smile to everyones face.   This is an important underpinning of the issue before us todaythe proposed legislation opening the way for civil nuclear cooperation between United States and India. In time, I hope that Indias burgeoning energy needs will prove a spur to a wide variety of alternatives to fossil fuel: solar, wind, biofuela whole panoply of sources.   On many of these, India is already moving ahead. But at present nuclear power is a vital part of Indias energy equationand looks to grow in significance in the years to come. That can have real benefits in terms of combating pollution and global warming and easing the competition for fossil fuels.   In the wake of the agreement on nuclear cooperation negotiated by President Bush and Prime Minister Singh, we in Congress must now address both the opportunities and the nonproliferation issues that agreement presents and build the consensus I believe we should have to mark what will be seen as a new beginning in the U.S.-India relationship.   Mr. Chairman, let me start by complimenting you on the remarkable job youve done in bringing us to this point. When the administration first presented this deal to us at the start of the year, if anybody had told me wed be acting on it before the July 4 recess and  unless Im counting wrong  pass it with overwhelming support, Id have suggested that would be very difficult, if not impossible.   I view this agreement as much more consequential than the subject matter to which it pertains. When people look back on the U.S.-India relationship in 25 or 50 years, I believe this will be marked as a historic moment, a stark and positive departure in that relationship. Id rather begin that journey with 75 or 90 votes on the Senate floor than with 51. And I believe the work weve done in reconciling different views gives us a chance to achieve that.   Ive been very critical of this administrations foreign policy, but President Bush is to be commended for continuing and accelerating the journey that President Clinton started in our relations with India. If I was asked to name the pillars for security in the 21st century, India and the United States would be two of them. And for the United States, no relationship is more important than the one we are building with India.   In our commitment to nonproliferation, the Chairman and I yield to nobody. No one has a stronger record on this than the chairman. Weve worked very hard over the past few months to insure that Congress develops a bill which allows civil nuclear cooperation with India to proceed and ends Indias nuclear isolation but which does so without seriously jeopardizing the hard-won nonproliferation gains of nearly four decades.   Specifically, our aims have been:     to preserve the right of Congress to conduct a meaningful review of the peaceful nuclear cooperation agreement that India and the United States are negotiating;    to ensure that such nuclear cooperation is used exclusively in Indias civil nuclear program and that India continues to be a good citizen when it comes to non-proliferation; and   	to do this without making the Administration renegotiate the deal.    It wasnt easy but I truly believe we have succeeded.    The Administration at first presented us with a Hobsons choice. We could accept their initial approach, at the price of limiting congressional powers and shortchanging our non-proliferation interests. Or we could reject the deal entirely, at the risk of doing terrible damage to Americas relationship with a close friend and rising power.   I believe the Chairman and I chose a more reasonable way forward. The bill before us would allow this agreement to proceed while underscoring our profound commitment to prevent the spread of nuclear weapons.   I know that some of our colleagues, on both sides of the aisle, would like to have seen an agreement with additional safeguards There are many provisions I too would like to have seen. But lets be clearmost of these provisions would have been deal-killers. There is a limit to how much we can get from the Administration, let alone India. The Chairman and Iand, I hope, most of our colleagues have concluded that a desire for the perfect shouldnt be the enemy of the pretty-darn-good.   The ultimate success of this agreement will rest on Indias willingness and ability to reduce tensions with its nuclear neighbors and achieve nuclear stability. India and the world also will benefit if India embraces critical global nonproliferation standards. These include the Proliferation Security Initiative; the Australia Group (which controls exports that could help countries build chemical or biological weapons); and the Wassenaar Arrangement (which combats the spread of advanced conventional weapons).   Congressional approval of the nuclear agreement with India once its actually negotiated and finalizedwill depend on the willingness of the White House to make Congress a genuine partner in this process. For the past year, ever since we learned of Joint Statement from television rather than through prior consultation, Congress has all too often been an afterthought for the Administration.   The legislation put forward by the White House would have required Congress to give up any meaningful oversight on the nuclear agreement. That would have been a serious mistake.   Mr. Chairman, its been my honor to work with you to craft this bipartisan bill. I think its absolutely vital to make sure that on an issue this important, we gain the educated, informed, and ungrudging support of the overwhelming majority of our colleagues. This simply cannot be a partisan issue.   In my view, this is a victory for the US-India relationship. It is a victory for the quest to move beyond fossil fuels. And it is a victory we have achieved while doing our best to maintain the global effort to end nuclear proliferation.   I urge the Committee to send this legislation to the floor with its strong endorsement.    