
            	ABCs Good Morning America
             June 29, 2005 
 This is a partial transcript from ABCs GOOD MORNING AMERICA from June 29, 2005.   DIANE SAWYER, ABC ANCHOR: The big question of the morning is: Did the president give the American people a winning plan for the war in Iraq last night and win more public support?   Joining us now from Washington is Senator Joseph Biden of Delaware, number one point person for the Democrats on Iraq. He has travelled there five times. And by the way, he's also the first to throw his hat in the ring for 2008.   U.S. SENATOR JOSEPH BIDEN (D-DE):  Well, now, that's a long way off.      SAWYER:  All right, Senator Biden.  Thanks for being with us this morning.      I want to get to you in a second. But you have said all along, the president can't get anything done until he levels with the American people and closes what you've called a credibility chasm.   I want to play the language he used about Iraq last night and see if you think he got it done.  Here's the clip.      (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)      GEORGE W. BUSH, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: The work in Iraq is difficult and it is dangerous. Rebuilding a country after three decades of tyranny is hard. We have a lot more work to do.   America has done difficult work before.      I told the American people that the road ahead would be difficult.      (END VIDEO CLIP)      SAWYER:  A lot of difficults, hards, horrifics in there, in fact.      So did he close the credibility gap?      BIDEN:  I think he did.  I think he told the American people why it's important.      I think he distanced himself from his vice president who had been saying things that didn't make a lot of sense, and from the Secretary of Defense. I think that's very good.   SAWYER:  Let's go to the plan itself and whether it is a winning one for those 80 attacks a day now.      He said there's only one way out, as the Iraqis stand up, America can stand down -- no other way. He's sending American troops to accompany Iraqi forces now.   Is this the answer?  Is this going to get it done?  And what would you do differently?      BIDEN:  No, I don't think it will get it done.      We already have American forces embedded with Iraqis.  That's nothing new.      What we have to do is we have to accept international help in training the Iraqi police force, in training the Iraqi army. We have to do more to bring in the international community to put pressure on the Iraqis to have the Sunnis as part of this deal. This is ultimately a political solution.   He told us the why it's important, as one press person said, but he didn't tell us how.      He said stay the course. The course we're on now is not a course for success. We must succeed. He has to change the course. He has to get more folks involved. He has to stand up that army much quicker and he has to train an officer corps.   All of this is only now beginning to be done and we're way behind the curve.      SAWYER: But they say they are working on all these things. So if a Joe Biden were in the White House, what is the day the troops could start coming home?   BIDEN:  The day we stand up the Iraqi forces.      But here's the thing that I think the president should do differently. For example, the Germans and the French and the Egyptians all have told me and the president that they are willing to train more Iraqis outside of the country. We should do that. Our Pentagon is saying, no, don't train them outside the country.   We should make sure that we set up basically an international board of directors. Get the E.U., get the G-8, get the NATO sitting as essentially a board of directors for the Iraqis so that it's not just United States indicating what they have to do.   And most importantly, NATO has drawn up a plan how they would seal the border with Iraq. We should be pressing them for a political decision to send 3,800 to 5,000 troops there to seal that border.   The president says this is a new insurgency.  Well, how are we going to stop the insurgency?      He says we don't need more troops.  They say we need more.  I don't get it.      SAWYER:  But he says the military says we don't need more troops, that he's depending on them.      BIDEN: Well, he ought to go back and talk to the -- I'm going to send him the phone numbers of the very generals and flag officers I spoke to as recently as Memorial Day in Iraq.   There's not a single solitary person I met that said we have enough force on the ground. Now, we can argue whether the mix of the force should be more foreign fighters, meaning our allies -- and I think it should be -- but there's not enough force on the ground now to mount a real counterinsurgency.   SAWYER:  Final and very quick question if I can.      He made five references to September 11th in 30 minutes last night. A lot of people have been debating this morning. Is that justified to evoke September 11th about the war in Iraq at this point?   BIDEN:  Well, I won't say whether it's justified or not.      I guess whatever the president thinks is justified is justified.      But here's the bottom line:  He also said, quote, We cannot allow Iraq to become a haven for terrorists.      That acknowledges it wasn't a haven before. It's becoming a haven because of our squandered actions and our squandered opportunities here.   The president has to step up.  We've got to do more.  Not stay the course, change the course.  We must win.      SAWYER:  The reaction of Senator Joseph Biden this morning.      Thanks so much for being with us.      BIDEN:  Thanks an awful lot.      To visit ABC's Good Morning America website, go to:  ABCNews.com   