
            	Biden Secures Funding for More Life-Saving Armored Vehicles (MRAPS)
             March 29, 2007 
 WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Senator Joseph R. Biden, Jr. (D-DE) championed an amendment today (#739) to the FY 2007 Supplemental Appropriations Bill, which passed the Senate unanimously, to meet the military's need for additional Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP) vehicles.   Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs) are responsible for 70 percent of U.S. casualties in Iraq.  MRAPs provide four to five times the protection of armored Humvees and the military has indicated that MRAP vehicles can reduce casualties by two-thirds. Putting it simply - this is a matter of life and death, said Sen. Biden, chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.  Seventy percent of our casualties in Iraq come from roadside bombs and these new MRAP vehicles can reduce those casualties by two-thirds.  These MRAPS are proven life-savers and we need to get as many of them in the field as possible, as soon as possible.  The Commandant of the Marine Corps said in a March 1, 2008 memo to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, The MRAP vehicle has a dramatically better record of preventing fatal and serious injuries from attacks by improvised explosive devices....Getting the MRAP into the Al Anbar province is my number one unfilled warfighting requirement at this time. The cost of 7,774 MRAPs is $8.4 billion.  The Administration's current plan is to spend $2.3 billion this year and $6.1 billion next year.  According to Sen. Biden, that plan is unacceptably slow, funding only 2,000 MRAPs by October 1, 2007 and 3,500 by January 1, 2008.  The military would not get all 7,774 MRAPs needed until July 2008.    Sen. Biden's amendment accelerates those funds, so the military can get more of these life-saving MRAPs in the field faster.    On March 14th, General Peter Schoomaker told the Appropriations Committee that with the MRAPs, We can build what we get the funds to build.  It is strictly an issue of money. Sen. Biden's amendment to add $1.5 billion to the Supplemental today means that 2,500 vehicles get to the field six months sooner than under the current plan. By putting them in the field faster we can prevent the deaths or reduce the level of injury for 10,000 to 30,000 more Americans this year. Sen. Biden's amendment passed the U.S. Senate, by a vote of 98-0. 