
            	Sen. Biden Issues Statement on Iraq Study Group Announcement of Report Release Date
             November 29, 2006 
 Washington, DC - U.S. Senator Joseph R. Biden, Jr. (D-DE) issued the following statement today in reaction to the Iraq Study Group's announcement that they will release their report on December 6, 2006: I look forward to the release of the Iraq Study Group's report next week. While I will reserve judgment on the actual report until I see it, I am hopeful that it will garner bipartisan support.  I advocate - and have advocated directly to the Iraq Study Group - the need for a political settlement among Iraq's major groups. The best way to get there is through federalism: maintaining a unified Iraq but decentralizing the country and giving Kurds, Shiites and Sunnis breathing room in their own regions. A central government would remain, responsible for the distribution of oil and border security. We would get Sunni buy-in by guaranteeing them a proportionate share of the oil revenues and we'd bring the neighbors in to support the political settlement. If we do all these things, we can withdraw most of our troops from Iraq 2008, with a small residual force to focus on counter-terrorism.  The Iraq Study Group's report need not embrace the details of my plan, but to gain broad bi-partisan support, it must contend with three of its central points:  First, the report must tackle the issue of U.S. troop deployments. The best way to get the Iraqis to concentrate on making the hard political decisions and compromises is to make clear to them that the presence of our troops in their present large numbers is not open-ended.  Second, the report must propose a clear political road map for Iraq. As we redeploy, we must exert maximum pressure on the Iraqis for a sustainable political settlement that deals with federalism, sharing oil revenue and the militias. Redeployment alone is not a plan -- it is a means to help bring about the political settlement needed if we are to avoid a full-blown civil war and regional conflict.  Third, the report must speak to the engagement of Iraq's neighbors. We should convene an international conference and stand up an oversight group of major countries to support a political settlement in Iraq -- or, if chaos ensues anyway -- to help contain its fallout within Iraq. There can be no sustainable peace in Iraq without the support of its neighbors, including Iran, Syria and Turkey.  I hope, at a minimum, the Iraq Study Group's report addresses these three issues.  
 Washington, DC - U.S. Senator Joseph R. Biden, Jr. (D-DE) issued the following statement today in reaction to the Iraq Study Group's announcement that they will release their report on December 6, 2006: I look forward to the release of the Iraq Study Group's report next week. While I will reserve judgment on the actual report until I see it, I am hopeful that it will garner bipartisan support.   I advocate - and have advocated directly to the Iraq Study Group - the need for a political settlement among Iraq's major groups. The best way to get there is through federalism: maintaining a unified Iraq but decentralizing the country and giving Kurds, Shiites and Sunnis breathing room in their own regions. A central government would remain, responsible for the distribution of oil and border security. We would get Sunni buy-in by guaranteeing them a proportionate share of the oil revenues and we'd bring the neighbors in to support the political settlement. If we do all these things, we can withdraw most of our troops from Iraq 2008, with a small residual force to focus on counter-terrorism.   The Iraq Study Group's report need not embrace the details of my plan, but to gain broad bi-partisan support, it must contend with three of its central points:   First, the report must tackle the issue of U.S. troop deployments. The best way to get the Iraqis to concentrate on making the hard political decisions and compromises is to make clear to them that the presence of our troops in their present large numbers is not open-ended.   Second, the report must propose a clear political road map for Iraq. As we redeploy, we must exert maximum pressure on the Iraqis for a sustainable political settlement that deals with federalism, sharing oil revenue and the militias. Redeployment alone is not a plan -- it is a means to help bring about the political settlement needed if we are to avoid a full-blown civil war and regional conflict.   Third, the report must speak to the engagement of Iraq's neighbors. We should convene an international conference and stand up an oversight group of major countries to support a political settlement in Iraq -- or, if chaos ensues anyway -- to help contain its fallout within Iraq. There can be no sustainable peace in Iraq without the support of its neighbors, including Iran, Syria and Turkey.   I hope, at a minimum, the Iraq Study Group's report addresses these three issues.    