
            	Biden Resolution Honors Veterans' Service, Courage and Bravery
             October 29, 2007 
 Washington, DC - The United States Senate approved U.S. Senator Joseph R. Biden, Jr.'s (D-DE) resolution designating the week containing Veterans Day, November 11-17, 2007, as National Veterans Awareness Week (S. Res. 357).  The purpose of National Veterans Awareness Week is to encourage educational programs designed to make students in elementary and secondary schools better understand veterans' contributions and their importance in preserving American peace and prosperity.  This is the eighth consecutive year that Sen. Biden's has introduced this legislation, which the Senate has adopted unanimously on all occasions.   "This Veterans Day we will honor the great bravery and sacrifices of our men and women in uniform who have served in some of the most dangerous parts of the world in order make Americans safer here at home.  We are all deeply indebted to them, for their bravery and for their selflessness," said Sen. Biden.  "National Veterans Awareness Week brings national attention to the courageous commitments our veterans have made for the security of our country, and reminds us to uphold our promises to them and provide them with the services and support they deserve."   In 1999, Senator Biden was inspired by an essay submitted by then-13-year-old Sam Cashdollar from Lewes, Delaware, to the Veterans of Foreign Wars' Youth Essay Contest.  The seventh grader's piece, entitled "How Should We Honor America's Veterans," suggested the establishment of a National Veterans' Week.  Cashdollar pointed out that while many occupations and groups are recognized with National Weeks, one of our society's most important groups - veterans - was not.  Senator Biden shared Cashdollar's concern that this lack of acknowledgment was "not only a disservice to veterans, but to Sam Cashdollar's own young generation as well."   "National Veterans Awareness Week complements Veterans Day by focusing on education as well as commemoration," said Sen. Biden.  "Our veterans can teach us some of the best lessons about our national heritage.  All of our service men and women are national heroes - they work unending hours and spend long periods of time away from their families, under conditions of great discomfort, so that we all can live in a land of freedom." 