
            	Senator Biden and Senator Lugar Discuss Foreign Policy on CNN Late Edition
             October 29, 2006 
 BLITZER:  Thanks very much, Fred.  And joining us now with theirtake on U.S. strategy in Iraq, the midterm elections and more, the twotop members of the U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee.  InWashington, the committee's Republican chairman, Richard Lugar ofIndiana.  And in his home state of Delaware, the panel's rankingDemocrat, Joe Biden.  Senators, thanks very much for coming in.Senator Lugar, I'll start off with you.  Excuse me.  I want youto listen to this clip of what President Bush said earlier this weekabout the situation in Iraq.(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)BUSH:  We're winning and we will win.  Unless we leave before thejob is done.  The crucial battle right now is Iraq.  And as I said inmy statement, I understand how tough it is.  Really tough.(END VIDEO CLIP)BLITZER:  Senator Lugar, you're a straight shooter.  Is theUnited States winning in Iraq right now?LUGAR:  Well, I agree with the president.  We will win if we arein Iraq or in the area.  I make that distinction because I don't knowany more than anybody else does how effective the Iraq government willbe.  In the last instance, whether they can secure the country,whether they can have a stable central government, whether they candistribute the oil money and pay their bills.But in any event, they are going to need some security, and weare going to need some security.  And our troops are that security.By that I mean the borders of Iraq are important.  Not only to theIraqis but to other countries.  And without there being bordersecurity, there's likely to be an invasion of Iraq from others.In addition, if we withdraw, we clearly open the borders but wedo have once again an incubator for terrorism in Iraq, comparable, Isuspect, to the Afghanistan situation we tried to clean up after 9/11.And therefore, we've got to be thinking globally and strategicallyabout the Middle East and I suppose, hoping, that the Iraqi governmentwill in fact be strong enough, will be capable enough with ourassistance, and as a democratic government, do the job.BLITZER:  Senator Biden, is the United States winning in Iraqright now?BIDEN:  Well, just look at the storyline here, Wolf.  Most deadlymonth in a long, long time.  No fundamental change.  Theadministration continues to be in disarray.  There were four differentpress conferences last week saying different things.  Yesterday,Maliki and the president spoke to try to seem to be on the same page.Maliki saying to our ambassador, I'm not your man in Iraq.  Don't tellus what to do.And while all this was going on, as Dick said, there's no plan todistribute the oil money equitably in order to deal with the sectarianviolence.  There does not seem to be any plan to move beyond where weare, and there is no call for a regional plan, which Dick has calledfor, I've called for, Secretary Baker, Secretary Schultz, et cetera,so that we in fact find ourselves in the position where we can dealwith the border from the other side of the border.That is, as it borders these other countries as well asinternally.  So I don't see much -- I'm not very hopeful that theadministration sees the need to have some real change.BLITZER:  Mr. Chairman, do you have confidence in this primeminister of Iraq, Nouri al-Maliki?LUGAR:  Well, he is the prime minister.  I think we want to stayaway from judgments now about whether the prime minister is competentor not.  He is the prime minister.  And we are going to take forgranted what he's saying that he will make those decisions with hispeople.  This is the element here in which we have fostered democracy.We've succeeded.  This is an elected government.  They have aconstitution, they have a road map.  If they wish to join togethervarious provinces and be more autonomous, they could in factdistribute the oil money, and they could in fact train people.We're getting now into some name-calling backward and forward, inwhich the prime minister indicates that he doesn't think we've trainedtheir troops very well, and we've pointed out a lot are AWOL and notvery conscientious.  And ours are sort of left in the middle.  So I'mnot going to engage in that today.I think our ambassador is giving full support.  The president, asyou said, has been on the telephone at least twice, at some length, totry to at least gain the greatest solidarity we can gain.BLITZER:  Senator Biden, here is how the defense secretary,Donald Rumsfeld, sized up the situation earlier in the week.  Listento this, and I'll get your reaction.(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)RUMSFELD:  You're looking for some sort of a guillotine toflowing down if some date isn't met.  That is not what this is about.This is complicated stuff.  It's difficult.  We're looking out in thefuture.  No one can predict the future with absolute certainty.So you ought to just back off, take a look at it, relax,understand that it's complicated.  It's difficult.(END VIDEO CLIP)BLITZER:  He was speaking to reporters but I suspect he wasspeaking to you and other critics as well.BIDEN:  "Relax," huh?  While we're getting killed, while 140,000troops are there, while they have no plan for success, and he'stelling us to relax.  Come on.Look, Wolf, I think his leadership has been abysmal.  But that'sa different issue.  I'm not about to relax as long as we have 140,000men and women in that country in the midst of a growing civil war withno plan for a political solution and no serious means by which we arecalling in the neighbors to figure out how they support any solutionthat comes forward.  I wish he'd get a little more sense of urgency.BLITZER:  Here's what Lindsey Graham, Senator Lugar, said earlierin the week to the Associated Press.  Republican of South Carolina:"We're on the verge of chaos in Iraq, and the current plan is notworking."As you know, Senator Lugar, there's an increasing chorus now ofRepublicans who are breaking ranks with the administration on Iraq.LUGAR:  Well, I'm well aware of that.  I read the press.  Butthat's not really very helpful one way or another.  I would just say,and I think in the constructive spirit of our conversation today thatSenator Biden and I have tried really to work together and bringtogether as much bipartisanship in the Foreign Relations Committee tobe helpful to the process of our troops and our commanders there, andour ambassador.  People that are really on the ball and have to bethere.Now, I would just say that the president and the Congress,however the election comes out, will have a lot to do with ourleadership and who does what.  But for the moment, it seems to mewe've got to keep our eye on the ball.  It is urgent.  We cannotrelax.And the facts are that we're offering advice to a fledglinggovernment.  We are hopeful they are successful because that will makethe Middle East more successful.BLITZER:  Senators, stand by for a moment.  We're going to take aquick break.  We have a lot more to discuss.  Senators Lugar andBiden, they are standing by.Also, still to come here on "Late Edition, " my complete uneditedinterview with the vice president's wife, Lynne Cheney.  She had somestrong words for the Democrats, for CNN, strong words in defense ofher husband.  I'll also share some personal thoughts.And we'll also take a closer look at how things stand and howthey could shake out in the overall political fight for control ofCongress.  That's with our political panel.  They are standing by.For our North American viewers, don't forget at the top of thehour, at 1 p.m. Eastern, it's "This Week at War."  Our host, JohnRoberts, he's in Baghdad.  You're going to want to see this program.That's coming up for our North American viewers at the top of thehour.(Commercial Break)BLITZER:  Welcome back to "Late Edition."  I'm Wolf Blitzer,reporting today from New York.  We are talking with the Republicanchairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Richard Lugar andthe committee's top Democrat, Joe Biden of Delaware.Senator Biden, I want you to listen to what the vice president,Dick Cheney, said the other day.  Listen to this.(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)RICHARD B. CHENEY, VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:Decisions about American troop levels will be driven by conditions onthe ground and the judgments of our commanders, not by artificialtimelines set by politicians in Washington, D.C.For the sake of our own generation, and the ones that follow, wehave a clear responsibility to press on in this fight.(END VIDEO CLIP)BLITZER:  All right.  I want your response to what the vicepresident said.BIDEN:  What does that mean?  I don't know what it means.  Thepresident of the United States announced benchmarks.  No one else did.The administration announced benchmarks.  No one else did.When you ask them what it means, they don't say what it means.They dope say what the benchmarks are about.  And the real question,here, is what happens if the Iraqi government continues to bedysfunctional?Let's assume it stays dysfunctional like it is now, six monthsfrom now.Do we continue to keep 140,000 American troops in the midst of adysfunctional country, in a dysfunctional government that, in fact,can't get its act together and is in a civil war so that we, in fact,can say we stayed our ground?What are the conditions upon which this administration is tryingto establish?And so when the vice president uses this rhetoric, he's also theone that says we're doing remarkably well in Iraq.  I think he needs areality check.BLITZER:  Senator Lugar?LUGAR:  Well, the Foreign Relations Committee has distributed toall of our colleagues the monthly statistics on what is occurring inall of Iraq.  And the fact is that we have very special problems inthe Kurd area; likewise, in some of the provinces that are not Baghdador Al Anbar.It's important for, in a sophisticated way, for each one of us --as opposed to getting into slogans as to whether we're winning,losing, cutting out and so forth, we need to get to the heart of thematter of who these people are and how they relate to other countriesaround them and to an overall Shiite-Sunni battle in the whole regionthat could have been triggered off -- and the problems in Lebanon,now, recently.I think that's the kind of debate we want to have -- hard tohave, I'm certain, in the next nine days.  But I hope we get back toit very soon.BLITZER:  The political season is clearly here, nine days to gobefore the election, Senator Biden.  And the president is predictingthat the Democrats will not take the majority in either the House orthe Senate, in part because of this.  Listen to what he says.(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)GEORGE W. BUSH, PRESIDENT OF THE UNTIED STATES:  I do notquestion their patriotism.  I question whether or not they understandhow dangerous this world is.  And this is a big issue in the campaign.Security of the country is an issue, just like taxes are an issue.(END VIDEO CLIP)BLITZER:  That's his theme, Senator Biden, that if the Democratstake over, they're going to raise the American people's taxes andthey're going to weaken their security.BIDEN:  I do not question the president's patriotism.  I questionhis judgment.  And the American people are going to have a referendumon Iraq and his whole security plan.  It's going to determine whathappens in the next two years.If it turns out that they repudiate the president's judgment,then I think you're going to see a bipartisan effort that flows fromthat, putting pressure on the administration to make a significantchange in its policy.If in fact they conclude that the president's judgment on Iraqand other matters relating to security has been correct, then I thinknothing is going to change.And so I think this is pretty straightforward and clear.  I donot question the president's patriotism.  I do severely question thejudgment of he, Secretary Rumsfeld and Secretary Cheney.  I think theyhave dug us in a very deep hole.BLITZER:  All right.  Senator Lugar?LUGAR:  In some states, Iraq will clearly be the leading issue,but followed closely by the economy, either a good or a bad economyand the overall war on terrorism.I'm not certain which will determine people's votes.  But I wouldsay, probably, the quality of the candidates will still be the majorfactor, as opposed to an overall referendum, either statewide ornationally.BLITZER:  Here's -- I just want to wrap this segment up, SenatorBiden, with this whole issue of alleged torture.  The president, thevice president dispute the notion that the United States engaged intorture.The vice president had this exchange with a radio talk show hostthe other day in North Dakota.  Listen to this little clip.(BEGIN AUDIO CLIP)UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER:  Would you agree a dunk in water is a no-brainer if it can save lives?CHENEY:  Well, it's a no-brainer for me, but I -- for a whilethere, I was criticized as being the vice president for torture.  Wedon't torture.  That's not what we're involved in.(END AUDIO CLIP)BLITZER:  The vice president flatly disputed this notion that hesuggested in that interview that the United States has engaged inwhat's called water boarding, which some have suggested is a form oftorture.  But I'm wondering what you think, knowing what you know.BIDEN:  Well, look, water boarding is, in fact, in mostcountries, viewed as torture.  As a matter of fact, if you go to themuseum relating to torture in Cambodia, prominently centered and asyou walk in, is an actual water board.  It's an actual device on whichyou water board people.Now, I don't know what other kind of "dunking" there is.  I'm notgoing to second-guess what the vice president said or meant by what hesaid to the North Dakota reporter.But this administration -- let me be precise.  The vice presidenthas never indicated anything that I've seen or done that he wouldthink that that is not a particularly useful device.But again, I -- it's just, the rest of the world views waterboarding as torture.  The Geneva Convention views it as torture.  Ithink it is torture.  And I hope our nation does not, or anyone in ourcountry in position of authority thinks it's an appropriate device touse as a matter of routine.BLITZER:  We've got to leave it right there.  Senators, thanksvery much for coming in.  Senator Biden and Senator Lugar, always goodto have you on "Late Edition." 