
            	Delawares Senior Medicare Waste Patrol Project to Receive Federal Funding
             August 30, 2005 
  WILMINGTON, DE  Senator Joseph R. Biden, Jr. announced today that the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services has awarded $170,000 to the Delaware Medicare Fraud Alert Project, a unique community partnership designed to teach seniors how to recognize and identify waste, fraud and abuse in the Medicare program.   The U.S. General Accounting Office estimates that over $13 billion, or $1 out of every $7 spent, was lost last year due to improper Medicare claims. According the U.S. Administration on Aging, this results in not only the waste of billions of American tax dollars, but also a diminished quality of treatment for the seniors who rely on Medicare, as well as a lack of funding for critical programs.   For the past seven years, the Senior Medicare Waste Patrol Project has been helping Medicare beneficiaries better understand their benefits, as well as educating them on how to be vigilant against fraud, abuse and error. The Patrols are made up of trained volunteers, many of them retired Medicare employees, health care professionals, lawyers and accountants, who go out into the senior community and provide information on how to recognize and report suspected cases of fraudulent or unnecessary payments and services. The Patrols also help connect seniors with the agencies and resources that can meet their health care needs.   With the new Medicare Prescription Drug Benefit coming soon, this grant couldnt have come at a better time, said Sen. Biden. These Patrols are real empowerment tools for our seniors. They become better consumers and advocates for each other, and the result is a more confident and informed community. And while Medicare is one of the greatest public policy successes of the 20th century, it is nevertheless a complicated and often confusing system. What better way to combat fraud and ensure that seniors receive the care they deserve than by equipping them with the skills to navigate the system themselves?   The grant will provide funding for three years, and will enable the Patrols to continue their work in each of Delawares three counties.  