
            	BIDEN Issues Statement on Eve of World AIDS Day
             November 30, 2007 
 Washington, DC - Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Joseph R. Biden, Jr. (D-DE) issued the following statement today on the eve of World AIDS Day, December 1, 2007:   "Nearly five years ago, the United States committed $15 billion to the fight against HIV/AIDS worldwide, launching the largest public health program of its kind that the world has ever known. The latest report from UNAIDS, the United Nations agency that tracks the disease, offers good news: overall HIV prevalence rates are lower than previously estimated. The new numbers indicate that 33 million people in the world are infected, 6 million fewer than we had thought.   "We are also making progress in reaching those who do suffer from HIV/AIDS. Thanks to international efforts led by the United States, over a million people with AIDS are now on anti-retroviral treatment. That means over a million death sentences have been suspended. Over 100,000 babies who likely would have been born with HIV were instead born healthy, thanks to these programs.   "Every life saved is a victory, but we cannot become complacent. We must build on our successes, and put prevention at the forefront of our efforts. Even with the new good news from UNAIDS, the math is brutally clear: we cannot keep up with the current pace of the epidemic through treatment programs alone. Prevention programs are critical to beating this disease. We must also eliminate our own barriers to progress. For example, we currently have laws on the books that set specific percentages for what we can spend on HIV/AIDS care, treatment and the ABC (Abstinence, Being faithful and using Condoms) prevention program. A, B and C are all critical components for stopping the spread of HIV/AIDS. But they need to be elements of a flexible process, rather than a splintered, bureaucratic approach that pits programs against each other for funding and resources.    "Going forward, we also must address the needs and vulnerabilities of women and girls; integrate our HIV/AIDS programs into our broader health and development agenda; help countries strengthen their health care systems; and expand our efforts against tuberculosis and malaria. All of this costs money, but it is an investment we can afford. And it will help save a generation in sub-Saharan Africa, where the disease continues to take an enormous toll on human lives and national economies.   "Congress is now beginning the process of renewing our overseas HIV/AIDS programs. To really keep pace and make further progress on the prevention front, our investment must be substantial. In that vein, today on the eve of World AIDS Day, I call on the President and my colleagues in Congress to pledge $50 billion over the next five years for our global HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria programs. My father used to say, show me your budget and I'll tell you what you value. The fight against HIV/AIDS is one of the greatest moral and strategic challenges of our time; we must match our rhetoric with the resources necessary to confront it." 