
            	Senator Biden Issues Statement in Observance of National Methamphetamine Awareness Day
             November 30, 2006 
 Washington, DC  U.S. Senator Joseph R. Biden, Jr. (D-DE), the Co-Chairman and Ranking Democrat on the Senate Anti-Meth Caucus, today issued the following statement in observance of National Methamphetamine (Meth) Awareness Day (November 30, 2006):    This year weve made great strides in the fight against methamphetamine. One of the most significant steps is the decrease in domestic production of the drug, due in large part to state and federal legislation restricting the sale of products used to make meth. Thankfully, weve also seen a huge crackdown on mom and pop meth labs across the country. While we still have a long way to go in combating this scourge, the steps we take today, and the steps weve taken this past year, will have huge ramifications down the road in this fight.    Today, National Methamphetamine Awareness Day gives us the opportunity to shine a spotlight on the growing challenges presented by meth use and distribution in our nation. Right now, meth use and importation are increasing at an unacceptable and alarming rate: the number of people entering drug treatment for meth addiction has increased almost six-fold in the last decade. Drug Enforcement Administration seizures of meth increased more than fivefold in that same time frame, and more than 300,000 people began using meth last year, joining nearly 12 million other Americans who have tried meth.    The Combat Meth Act is a tremendous step in the right direction, but we need to go further. We need legislation that will provide a comprehensive approach to the meth epidemic.    Senator Biden has been at the forefront of national policy on methamphetamine for nearly 15 years, issuing reports in the early 1990s warning that meth would make its way across the country and negatively impact rural America; writing major meth legislation in 1996 and 2000; and cosponsoring the Combat Meth Act of 2005 which regulates cold medicines containing pseudoephedrine, the active ingredient in methamphetamine.    Additionally, in an effort to address the growing threat of methamphetamine use in America, Senator Biden recently joined with several colleagues in forming the Senate Anti-Meth Caucus. This group works closely to devise a cohesive, nationwide strategy against methamphetamine addiction.  