
            	BIDEN Bill Promotes Democracy in Burma
             October 30, 2007 
 Washington, DC  Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee Joseph R. Biden, Jr. (D-DE) introduced the Burma Democracy Promotion Act to promote the restoration of civilian, democratic rule to the troubled state of Burma.  Today's legislation will help create the right conditions for the peaceful, negotiated transfer of power from the generals who have ruled Burma for almost two decades to a newly-constituted civilian, democratic government.     "We need to bring pressure to bear on the Burmese generals directly responsible for the violence against the peaceful protestors last month, but unilateral sanctions alone will not get the job done," Sen. Biden said.  "We need a coordinated, international diplomatic strategy that combines pressure with dialogue."   The Burma Democracy Promotion Act imposes new financial sanctions and travel restrictions on the leaders of the junta and their associates.  In addition, the legislation tightens the economic sanctions Congress imposed in 2003 by outlawing the importation of Burmese gems and timber to the United States.  The bill also creates a new position of Special Representative and Policy Coordinator for Burma.  The Special Representative will work with Burma's neighbors and other interested countries, including the members of the European Union and the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, to develop a comprehensive approach to the problem, including sanctions, dialogue, and support for non-governmental organizations providing humanitarian relief to the Burmese people.    "It is time for Burma to begin a new day in which all of the people, including Burma's many minority groups, work together to rebuild what nearly 20 years of disastrous military rule have destroyed," said Sen. Biden.    Sens. Mitch McConnell (R-KY), Barbara Boxer (D-CA), Chris Dodd (D-CT), Patrick Leahy (D-VT) and Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) are cosponsors of this bipartisan bill.  In addition, the bill was written in consultation with Sen. McCain's office.   