
            	Biden Supports Decision to Join Iran Nuclear Negotiations, Urges Direct Talks on All Issues
             May 31, 2006 
 WASHINGTON, DC  U.S. Senator Joseph R. Biden, Jr. (D-DE), senior democrat on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee today issued the following statement regarding an announcement that the United States will join Britain, France and Germany in beginning diplomatic discussion with Iran, on the condition that they suspend their uranium enrichment and reprocessing activities.    I support todays announcement that the United States is willing to join Britain, France and Germany at the negotiating table with Iran once the Iranian government suspends uranium enrichment. This marks an important step forward and a reversal of the Bush Administrations reluctance to engage with Iran. It will help convince our European allies, Russia and China that the United States is committed to a diplomatic solution, which makes it more likely they will be with us if diplomacy fails. The onus is now on Iran to respond to the Bush Administration and accept the demands of the world to suspend uranium enrichment. Increasingly, the world understands the danger of a nuclear-armed Iran and is coming together to prevent it. We must ensure that our policies continue to isolate Iran, not the United States.     While I endorse todays announcement, I believe that the Administration should be willing to go further. I urge President Bush to call for direct talks with Iran  anywhere, anytime, with everything on the table  not just the nuclear program. We should be willing to talk about all the issues that divide us: the nuclear program, terrorism, Iraq, Afghanistan, Israeli-Palestinian peace, sanctions, and security.    A call for comprehensive talks would present Iranian leaders with a stark choice  reject the overture and risk complete isolation and an angry public, or accept it and start down a path that would require Iran to alter its behavior.    Talking to Tehran would not reward bad behavior or legitimize the regime. Talking is something we have done with virtually every other country on earth, including the Soviet Union during the Cold War and unsavory regimes like the ones in North Korea and Libya.    Demonstrating that we have made a serious attempt at diplomacy is also the best way to keep others on board for tougher actions if Iran fails to respond. If this Administration wants to convince our allies and others to place serious pressure on Iran, it must walk the extra diplomatic mile  especially after its enormous mistakes in Iraq.  