
            	Opening Statement: Senate Foreign Relations Business Considers the Convention on the Law of the Sea
             October 31, 2007 
 **REMARKS PREPARED FOR DELIVERY** Statement by Sen. Joseph R. Biden, Jr. (D-DE), Chairman Senate Foreign Relations Business Meeting to Consider the Convention on the Law of the Sea October 31, 2007   Washington, DC - Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee Joseph R. Biden, Jr. (D-DE) delivered the following remarks today at the Senate Foreign Relations Committee business meeting to consider the Convention on the Law of the Sea:   "Today the Committee on Foreign Relations will consider five treaties and three nominations.   "The lead item on the agenda is the Convention on the Law of the Sea, which has been pending before the Senate for thirteen years. This will be the second time the Committee has voted on the treaty. In 2004, when Senator Lugar was Chairman, it was approved by a vote of 19 to zero.   "The treaty is the product of over two decades of effort, which began in 1970, when President Nixon proposed a new round of negotiations to remedy flaws in four treaties on the law of the sea that had been adopted in 1958.    "In May 1970, President Nixon called on the nations of the world to resolve the "basic issues of the future regime for the oceans" through a new treaty. The treaty, he said, should establish an international mechanism to "authorize and regulate explorations and use of seabed resources" beyond national jurisdiction.   He said, it should also "establish general rules to prevent unreasonable interference with other uses of the ocean, to protect the ocean from pollution, to assure the integrity of investment necessary for exploitation [of the seabed], and to provide for peaceful and compulsory settlement of disputes."    "The point of all this, he said, was to save the oceans from "national conflict and rivalry, protect it from pollution and put it to use for the benefit of all." That was Richard Nixon - hardly a starry-eyed liberal when it came to international affairs. And every President since Nixon has supported these objectives.    "President Reagan rejected the Convention in 1982, but only because he objected to its provisions on deep seabed mining. In 1983, he announced that the United States would follow the rules laid down in the rest of the Convention. Under the first President Bush, negotiations to revise the seabed mining provisions were initiated, culminating in the 1994 Agreement, signed by President Clinton, on the Implementation of Part Eleven of the Convention.    "In 2002, the Bush Administration said that Senate action on the treaty was urgently needed. In May of this year, President Bush reinforced that statement by urging the Senate to approve the Convention during this session of Congress.   "The Convention is long and complex, but for the United States, I believe the choice is relatively simple.    "Do we join a treaty that establishes a framework to advance the rule of law on the oceans, that is clearly in our military, economic, and environmental interests, and that has broad acceptance among the major maritime powers? Or do we remain on the outside, to the detriment of our national interests?   I strongly believe that we should become a party to the Convention, and that any risks it poses are far outweighed by the benefits.   "Militarily, the treaty codifies key rights of navigation on which the United States Navy relies. The opponents of the Convention contend that we can use customary international law, and the military muscle of the Navy, to protect our navigational interests. This argument is curious, coming as it does from people who often question that there is such a thing as customary law. More to the point, however, customary law is less stable, and commands less respect among nations, than rights firmly established by treaty. I think we owe our armed forces a firm legal footing as we project power around the globe.   "Economically, the treaty provides a range of benefits. Prominent among these is a means to firmly establish our legal claims to the resources on the continental shelf beyond 200 nautical miles; off the coast of Alaska, our shelf may extend for 600 miles. The oil and gas industry is unanimous in support of the Convention, as they seek the legal certainty needed to invest the dollars necessary to extract resources from the shelf.   "The Convention establishes a legal regime to govern deep seabed mining in a manner that satisfies all the objections of President Reagan. Among other things, it abolishes mandatory technology transfer requirements, and gives the United States a permanent seat on the Council of the International Seabed Authority, the key decision-making body. The Convention also strengthens legal protections for underwater sea cables, a key component of our information age.    "The coalition supporting the treaty is broad. In addition to President Bush, it is supported by the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Western Governors Association, the Navy League of the United States, the Military Officers Association, the oil and gas industry, the telecommunications industry, the shipping industry, and environmental and fishing organizations. I am unaware of any ocean industry that has expressed opposition to it.    "The coalition of supporters also includes both of President Reagan's Secretaries of State, Al Haig and George Shultz; his National Security Advisers, Bud McFarlane and Colin Powell; and his Secretary of Treasury and Chief of Staff Jim Baker. It was also supported by his Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Admiral William Crowe, who passed away earlier this month, and who was buried this morning in Annapolis.   "The Committee will consider a resolution of ratification, the document by which the Senate gives advice and consent to treaties. The resolution that Senator Lugar and I have presented to the Committee is identical to the resolution that the Committee endorsed unanimously in 2004. It was developed in close collaboration with the Bush Administration, which was represented in those negotiations with the Committee by the Departments of State, Defense, and Justice. Not one word has been changed since 2004.     "I recognize that we will need a roll call vote on the Law of the Sea Convention, but I am unaware of any need for a vote on the rest of the agenda. Once we achieve a quorum of eleven senators, I believe we can voice vote the entire agenda, except for the Law of the Sea Convention." 