
            	BIDEN Introduces Bill to Curb 'Robotripping'
             October 31, 2007 
  BIDEN Legislation will Restrict Teen Access to Cough and Cold Meds Containing Dextromethorphan (DXM)  Washington, DC  U.S. Senator Joseph R. Biden, Jr. (D-DE), Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime and Drugs and the Caucus on International Narcotics Control, introduced the Dextromethorphan Abuse Reduction Act of 2007, legislation that will curb the alarming rise in medicine abuse, including the misuse of cough and cold medicines containing Dextromethorphan (DXM).     "It's not just pot or LSD or cocaine we have to worry about - teens across the country are abusing over-the-counter cough and cold medicines to get high, sometimes with deadly consequences," said Sen. Joe Biden.    DXM is an ingredient in many cough and cold medications.  Currently, DXM is not adequately regulated by the federal government and teens across the country are taking advantage of this, easily buying it in bulk on the Internet.  DXM produces hallucinogenic, PCP-like effects when taken in excessive quantities and its misuse causes a rapid heartbeat, high blood pressure, seizures, brain damage, elevated body temperatures, and sometimes even death.  Teens often refer to this practice as "Robotripping" - a term derived from the common cough medicine Robitussin, which contains DXM.  The risk to teens is considerable because DXM is legal and inexpensive.     Recent studies reveal the widespread nature of the problem.  Children ages 9 to 17 are the fastest growing group of recreational users of DXM.  The Partnership for a Drug-Free America estimates that 2.4 million teens, or 1 in 10, got high on over-the-counter cough medicines in 2005.  And, 7 percent of 12th graders have gotten high off cough and cold medicine.  The number of reported cases in California increased 10-fold since 1999 - a trend that is said to mirror rates nationwide - and experts say the problem is vastly underreported.   The Dextromethorphan Abuse Reduction Act, cosponsored by Senators Chuck Grassley (R-IA), Dick Durbin (D-IL) and Diane Feinstein (D-CA), prohibits the unregulated sale of the bulk form of Dextromethorphan; prohibits the sale of Dextromethorphan-containing products to buyers under 18 years old - a move voluntarily taken by several major retail stores; and provides robust funding for prevention and educational programs to combat over-the-counter and prescription drug abuse.  The bill is supported by the Food Marketing Institute, Consumer Healthcare Products Association, National Association of Chain Drug Stores, Partnership for a Drug-Free America, and Community Anti-Drug Coalition of America.   "It's more than Just Say No.' The answer to the problem of Dextromethorphan abuse is not to simply lock up the medicine cabinet.  There is also a real need to raise awareness in our communities - among parents, teens, teachers, counselors and others - about the dangers of DXM abuse so that parents know that their kids may be doing this," said Sen. Biden.  "This legislation will attack this problem from all sides - education, enforcement and restricted access - and is the right move to protect our kids." 