SEN. HAGEL COMMENTS ON COLLEGE OF WILLIAM AND MARY ANNUAL CHARTER DAY CELEBRATION
  Below is the text of the speech Sen. Chuck Hagel (R-NE) delivered today at the College of William and Mary's annual Charter Day celebration. Sen. Hagel also received an honorary degree from William and Mary. 
   "It is an honor for me to be here today to celebrate the charter that established William and Mary College as one of America's oldest and most prestigious institutions of higher education.  
   I want to acknowledge the fact that William and Mary is a public institution. Public education has been the cornerstone of our success as a society and a country for over 200 years. The responsibility we share to educate our citizens defines who we are. It is not senatorial hyperbole to suggest that this commitment began here at William and Mary. The College of William and Mary has always understood that education is more than books, facts, and figures, but the molding and shaping of individuals. Responsible and vital citizens are shaped from within with outside influences. Development of and emphasis on character and courage are part of the educational process. It is difficult to find an educational institution that has contributed more to the shaping and molding of generations of productive citizens and happy and fulfilled men and women, or produced more distinguished leaders than William and Mary. 
   The influence of William and Mary is seen across the pages of American history. Your former Chancellor, former British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher said of her William and Mary office, "...one cannot hold this office without feeling an affinity with those giants of the past who were associated with this College, and whose leadership helped to found this great country." I would say that one cannot speak here today without that same feeling Mrs. Thatcher described. 
   To attempt to catalog all the contributions of William and Mary graduates would be even beyond the capacity of endless Senate debate. But I cannot proceed without acknowledging at least a few of the most significant contributions made by William and Mary graduates. 
   Before he was the father of the American Revolution and the embodiment of the American character, George Washington got his surveyor's certificate from William and Mary and served as its fourteenth Chancellor. 
   The class of 1762 produced the man who would make the case for American independence in a voice so clear and powerful that even today it still resonates around the globe. If Washington became the embodiment of the American character, then Thomas Jefferson was the embodiment of the American spirit. 
   In the year that Jefferson wrote the Declaration of Independence, future President James Monroe was graduating from William and Mary. 
   Perhaps America's most influential Chief Justice, John Marshall came from the class of 1780. 
   The list of William and Mary alumni includes U.S. President John Tyler, Edmund Jennings Randolph America's first Attorney General and second Secretary of State, Governors, Senators, Congressmen, business leaders, acclaimed educators and artists, and the list goes on and on. 
   Still today, those associated with William and Mary are shaping our nation. Your current Chancellor Sandra Day O'Connor is one of the leading role models for women and jurisprudence in America...and the world. She left a legacy of fairness, moderation and devotion to the public good on the Supreme Court, and she has brought those same qualities to William and Mary. 
   The current Secretary of Defense, Robert Gates comes from the class of 1965. He has served his country with distinction, except for the one faltering mis-step, that being his decision to accept the Presidency of Texas A&M. Only a Big XII Nebraskan, envious of Texas A&M can say such a thing. 
   And perhaps no William and Mary graduate is as influential as 1984 graduate, Jon Stewart. What would America be today without Jon Stewart's scintillating and didactic commentary every night on the Daily Show. I am a big fan of Jon Stewart. 
   The contributions of William and Mary celebrated on its Charter Day are not the only reasons for reflection as we gather here today. Almost 400 years ago, on April 26, 1607, a group of 108 Englishmen landed not far from here at what would become Jamestown. Arriving 13 years before the Mayflower landed in Massachusetts, the pioneers at Jamestown were ill-equipped to settle the land and lost many from their party to starvation, disease and attacks from American Indians. Ultimately, under Captain John Smith they gained a foothold on the land and set in motion events that would ultimately give birth to our nation and change the course of the world. 
   As we look back over the last 400 years, it is breathtaking to take inventory of the events that have taken place since that band of Englishmen set foot on what would become the shores of Virginia. We had an American revolution. The birth of our democracy. The Louisiana Purchase and the incredible growth of our nation. A Civil War that nearly ended our nation. In the 20th Century, we saw the full intensity of the industrial revolution, depression, two world wars, new civil rights laws, assassinations, the Cold War, Vietnam, and the technological revolution. This new century has been marked by the searing images of September 11th, 2001, war in Afghanistan and Iraq and new opportunities that we are still trying to harness and understand. 
   Through it all, what was begun 400 years ago at Jamestown has developed into the greatest democracy the world has ever known. Why is that? I believe it is because of the strength, fiber, character and courage of the American people. These are the threads that have woven together our society throughout our history. At our darkest moments of crisis, it has been our national character that has seen us through. It is something in the American spirit, our inordinate common sense and faith in each other, that lifts our people above the fog of the challenges and uncertainties of the day to see the larger picture. This is not the observation of a politician trying to spin out patriotic pathos, but as an American who has seen how great our country can be in his own life...and who has been a beneficiary of this generous and uncommon spirit. 
   Our nation is imperfect. Like the group that settled at Jamestown, we have known failure and tolerated injustice. But, like the group that settled at Jamestown, we have persevered and pushed ourselves to be better and right the wrongs of injustice and intolerance. But we are still a nation in transformation- and hopefully we always will be- transforming ourselves into more productive and compassionate people, willing to confront the inequities that still inhabit our society...and fix them. 
   As we look back on our past and see how far we have come, we must also look out beyond the horizon at the challenges ahead. The challenges we will face in the coming years are unlike any we have ever faced. They are not confined to defined enemies, nations or ideologies. They do not fit neatly into easily labeled definitional boxes. They are complicated and global. They cannot be separated into "domestic" and "foreign policy" issues. The old rules on how we view, and negotiate challenges no longer apply. We need to understand the interconnectedness of the world in which we now live, in order to meet the challenges we will face. A 21st Century frame of reference will be required to deal with 21st Century challenges and opportunities. 
   Public policy today is interconnected like no other time in history. A brief inventory of some of the challenges our country faces makes this point clear: energy security; global climate change; the threat of terrorism and proliferation of weapons of mass destruction; endemic global health threats; education; immigration; entitlement reform; new national infrastructure investment; and budget deficits. None of these issues can be dealt with in a vacuum and none can be deferred. As public policy makers, we must understand and respond to this reality. 
   America's new security challenges are pieces of a complicated landscape. Our strategic thinking and national interests embodied in our government policies must all play for the future. America must build and sustain a new international relationship with a new international generation. We are living at a time that represents the most significant global generational shift in the history of mankind. America must not lose the trust and confidence of the next global generation. While the United States and Europe grow older, the rest of the world is getting younger. 
   Approximately 2.4 billion people, or nearly 40% of the world's 6.3 billion people are 19 years old or younger. The population of the world is expected to grow to almost eight billion people by 2025. Two-thirds of Iran's population is under the age of 30. Over half of Vietnam's 74 million people are under the age of 25. Sixty percent of Pakistan's 134 million people are under the age of 25. 
   In addition to demographic numbers, we must pay attention to the human condition. The human condition always drives world events. Roughly half of the world's people live on less than $2 per day. More than one billion people do not have potable drinking water. Two billion people lack proper sanitation, and another 2 billion people do not have electricity. 
   All of these numbers tell an important and complicated story that we must pay attention to. The greatest force for change in the world is the next generation. For America and the world to continue to improve the human condition it will require the trust and confidence of the world's next generation. If we fail, our children and grandchildren will inherit a very dangerous world. 
   We do not need to reach as far back as the landing at Jamestown to find historical guidance for the challenges we face today. Following the destruction caused by World War II and the advent of the atomic bomb, the world faced a set of challenges unlike any humankind had ever faced. In that environment, leaders like Truman, Eisenhower and Marshall led America in developing a new strategic framework that helped rebuild the world with our allies and earned the trust and confidence of much of the world's people. Eisenhower who led our troops on the bloody beaches of D-Day and Truman who gave the order to drop the atomic bomb understood that a nation must be powerful enough to defend itself and must never shrink from the obligations of national security. However, they also understood that American power alone would not bring security for our nation. The world must also trust America's purpose. It is America's purpose that the world admired-not its power. Eisenhower captured this understanding in his second inaugural address: 
   "We look upon this shaken earth, and we declare our firm and fixed purpose- the building of a peace with justice in a world where moral law prevails." 
   In today's world, there are limitless opportunities for America to gain the trust and confidence of the world's next generation because there are more issues of common global concern than ever before. Climate change, pandemic health issues, extreme poverty, the spread of radical fundamentalism and weapons of mass destruction...these are all threats to all people that cannot- and will not-be solved without American leadership...working with our allies in common purpose to find common resolutions to common challenges. 
   The world knows America's power. No nation rivals us in terms of military and economic might. But in the 21st Century, it will be the next global generation's trust in America's purpose, not their fear of our power or envy of our economy, that will determine our future...just as Eisenhower said, "in the building of a peace with justice in a world where moral law prevails." 
   I want to speak for a moment to the students who are with us today. There is much for us to learn from you here at William and Mary. You are part of that next generation that represents the greatest force for change in the world. You will face challenges and opportunities beyond what could have been imagined by those who chartered this institution more than 300 years ago and those who settled Jamestown 400 years ago. There is much uncertainty ahead, but know William and Mary has prepared you well. 
   William and Mary has taught you the importance of tradition. From student orientation, when you stand in the same room where Washington and Jefferson stood...to graduation when you make your final walk through the Wren Building, William and Mary has taught you to call back on America's heritage and traditions for guidance, inspiration and comfort. 
   Alexis de Tocqueville, the great mid-19th century observer of America wrote, 
   "Two things in America are astonishing: the changeableness of most human behavior and the strange stability of certain principles. Men are constantly on the move, but the spirit of humanity seems almost unmoved." 
   We find ways in America to divide ourselves. Twenty four hour cable news, non-stop political talk shows, blogs, and Madison Avenue labels for everyone and everything. Republican, Democrat; conservative, liberal; moderate, radical; old, young; rich, poor. Targeted and segmented marketing for all people and all products. Each citizen placed in a labeled market or political box. It is easier to understand the complexities of the world that way. But man- especially Americans- will never be compartmentalized; it is against his nature to be put in simplistic boxes. Yes, it is more comfortable and safer that way, but instinctively man will always want his freedom and freedom of expression. It is a market driven world. It is easy in this environment to lose sight of that special and unique American quality de Tocqueville was talking about, but it is still there...that soaring spirit of humanity and decency that Americans share. We can be divided in many ways, but we are in the end all Americans. 
   We share a belief in belief. Belief in our creator, belief in our families and friends, belief in our communities and country, and belief in something larger than our own individual self interests. It is hard to come to William and Mary and be in the presence of the ghosts of greatness and not be reminded of this rich heritage. 
   America will meet the challenges that lie ahead. Our strength is our people. Every generation of Americans has passed on to succeeding generations a better and stronger America. We must never forget that our greatest responsibility in life, in every way, in everything we do...is to help make a better world. 
   I want to thank you again for the honor of allowing me to be part of this very special day for this very special institution. However, there are several nuns who once upon a time taught me (or attempted to teach me) at St. Bonaventure High School in Columbus, Nebraska who would seriously question your decision to give me an honorary degree...but who are they to argue with America's oldest college. And, besides, they were always suspect of public schools. 
   It was a William and Mary graduate who said: "Above all things I hope the education of the common people will be attended to, convinced that on their good sense we may rely with the most security for the preservation of a due degree of liberty." Thomas Jefferson got it right. Thank you to William and Mary for this honor and thank you for attending to the education of the common people for over 300 years."
 
 