SEN. HAGEL REQUESTS CRP ACRES RELEASED FOR GRAZING DUE TO ONGOING DROUGHT CONDITIONS
  Today Sen. Chuck Hagel (R-NE) sent a letter to Secretary of Agriculture Ann Veneman requesting immediate consideration for the early release of Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) lands in Nebraska for emergency grazing. Extensive drought in western and southwestern Nebraska has intensified the need for CRP land to be available before July 15th for grazing. 
   "These areas in Nebraska have been suffering from drought conditions for the past four years, which have had a serious negative impact on Nebraska's livestock grazing industry. The ability of cattle owners and CRP operators to begin grazing before July 15th is critical," Hagel said in the letter.
   U.S. Department of Agriculture rules state that CRP acres are not eligible for grazing until after July 15th and producers are allowed to graze these acres only once during a three year period. The letter to Secretary Veneman requests that the acres be eligible for grazing before July 15th as well as give an exemption to producers that have grazed CRP acres in the past three years.
   On May 10th, Hagel sent a letter to Secretary Veneman supporting agricultural disaster designation requests by Governor Johanns for 21 counties in Nebraska.
   Letter to Veneman attached.
   June 10, 2004
   The Honorable Ann Veneman 
  Secretary 
  U.S. Department of Agriculture 
  1400 Independence Avenue, SW 
  Washington, DC 20250
   Dear Secretary Veneman:
   Thank you for your responsiveness in helping Nebraskans deal with the ongoing drought. On May 10th, 2004, I asked USDA to consider a disaster declaration for 21 Nebraska counties. Since then, the situation has worsened.
   I am writing today to request your immediate consideration for the early release of Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) lands for emergency grazing. The ability of cattle owners and CRP operators to begin grazing prior to July 15 is critical given the extensive drought in western and southwestern Nebraska. Most of this area is in a D3 drought index classification.
   These areas in Nebraska have been suffering from drought conditions for the past four years. As you are aware, emergency CRP grazing rules allow producers to graze program acres only once during a three year span. I request that you exempt these producers from this rule. This exemption may prevent further liquidation of Nebraska's livestock grazing industry.
   I welcome an opportunity to discuss these concerns with you. I appreciate your consideration of this request.
   Thank you for your assistance.
   Regards,
 
 