A GLOBAL PERSPECTIVE IN THE CLASSROOM
  By Sen. Chuck Hagel
   According to the U.S. Census Bureau, there are over 1.7 billion young people between the ages of 5 and 19 in the world and it is estimated that Nebraska has over 500,000 young people between the ages of 5 and 24. It is an enormous and critical task to educate young learners, both globally and at home, about the importance of understanding the international community in which we live. There is a great deal that Nebraska's educators and parents are doing to bring the world into the classroom.  
   I recently visited students at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln (UNL) and Omaha's Crestridge Elementary School of International and Global Studies to learn more about the diverse opportunities in global education that are being offered to Nebraska students. I spoke with UNL students and students from the University of Castilla-La Mancha in Spain who were participating in a Global Classroom session via videoconferencing. Satellite technology enables students from both sides of the Atlantic to communicate as if they were in one classroom together. 
   This program was made possible through funding from the U.S. Department of State, which I supported. It makes sense to promote and foster cross-cultural communications between the world's young adults in a classroom environment. The world is becoming increasingly more connected. Initiatives like the UNL Global classroom help prepare Nebraskans to compete in an interconnected and more competitive world. 
   This classroom session, a fundamental practice of bringing students together to learn, assumes a new dimension when put in the context of gathering students from other cultures, countries and backgrounds to discuss world events, politics and favorite hobbies. The global relationships being nurtured today create the foundation for critical global alliances tomorrow. 
   Crestridge Elementary's curriculum has a global focus that seeks to give students exposure to various cultures, regions, levels of economic development and geography around the world. My hosts Christina and Riley gave me a tour of the school, where they pointed out student artwork representing different cultures and described learning about the United Nations, American government and foreign languages. 
   Walking down the halls at Crestridge I heard German, Spanish and Japanese spoken by students and teachers. Foreign language study is critical to success. Learning a language is not only about knowing grammar and vocabulary, but also incorporates exploring the country and culture from where that language originates. Foreign languages open a door to the world by encouraging an understanding of the global community. 
   Senator Feingold (D-WI) and I are the original cosponsors of the People-to-People Engagement in World Affairs Resolution, which encourages the active engagement of Americans in world affairs and urges the Secretary of State to coordinate the creation of an online database of international exchange programs and related opportunities, such as foreign language programs. By participating in international programs, Americans can learn about other nations and directly influence the world's view of our country. Nebraska schools play a critical role in connecting students with exchange program opportunities. 
   There are more opportunities for helping create a better world today than any time in our history. Introducing a global element into the classroom environment prepares our young people to excel in a 21st Century economy and world. The UNL Global Classroom and Crestridge Elementary School of International and Global Studies are two examples of the many efforts Nebraskans are making to bring the world into the classroom. 
   Global education is a powerful tool that shapes the thinking and understanding of Nebraska's learners and will prepare our young people for the critically important leadership roles that will guide the global community tomorrow.
 
 