SEN. HAGEL'S INTRODUCTION OF U.N. SECRETARY GENERAL ANNAN
  After the devastation of the Second World War, President Truman said, "our most immediate task is to deprive our enemies completely and forever of their power to start another war." 
   "Of even greater importance to the preservation of international peace is the need to preserve the war-time agreement of the United Nations and to direct it into ways of peace."  
   President Truman further added, "it will be the continuing policy of the United States to use all its influence to foster, support, and develop the United Nations organization in its purpose of preventing international war. If peace is to endure, it must rest upon justice, no less than power. The question is how justice, justice among nations is best achieved. We know from day-to-day experience that the chance for a just solution is immeasurably increased when everyone directly interested is given a voice." 
   President Truman's comments represented a deep and wide commitment of the United States to the belief that there should be an international institution that is open to all states that exists to build and strengthen common interests and that seeks to improve the welfare and prosperity of all people. 
   Born in Ghana, educated in Ghana, and at McCallister College in St. Paul, Minnesota, and at MIT in Massachusetts, Kofi Annan joined the U.N. in 1962. Over the last four decades Secretary General Annan has tirelessly served the international community serving in the World Health Organization, the U.N. Economic Commission on Africa, the U.N. High Commission on Refugees, the U.N. PeaceKeeping Operations, and as a Special Representative of the Secretary General to the former Yugoslavia. 
   When he became the Secretary General in 1996, he became the first career international diplomat elected to lead the United Nations. In 2001, Kofi Annan and the U.N. were recognized for their work to achieve peace, receiving the Nobel Peace Prize. Secretary General Annan has clearly understood the great challenges that the world faces in the 21st century: despair, pandemic disease, pandemic poverty, religious extremism, and terrorism. The challenges and threats of today are more complicated and interconnected than at any time in history. 
   The last decade has been a time of deep change and historic transformation. The alliances, institutions, and partnerships that we developed after World War II that brought six decades of relative stability and prosperity to the world are being challenged and need reform. Kofi Annan recognized the immensity of these challenges and the need for U.N. reform when he became Secretary General ten years ago. 
   He admitted then that being Secretary General is, in his words, "the most impossible job in the world." I doubt he has retreated from that bold statement. 
   This has been a time of testing and great challenge for the United Nations. The world is turning to the U.N. with unprecedented frequency, asking it to address the Balkans, East Timor, Afghanistan, Iraq, Lebanon, North Korea, Haiti, the Arab-Israeli conflict, HIV/AIDS, and the SARS epidemic. The United Nations' credibility has been damaged by cases of mismanagement, misjudgment, and wrong doing. Efforts to reform the U.N. must be ongoing. It has failed at many of these efforts. All institutions are imperfect. Kofi Annan understands better than anyone the realities of these great challenges within this great 60 year institution. 
   Kofi Annan served as Secretary General during ten of the most difficult, complicated, and dangerous years of the U.N.'s history. He did it with grace, humor, determination, and always doing what he felt was in the best interest of mankind. 
   Ladies and gentleman, one of the world's preeminent statesmen, the Secretary General of the United Nations, Kofi Annan.
 
 