SEN. HAGEL TO RE-INTRODUCE BILLS TO INCREASE G.I. DEATH BENEFIT, ELIMINATE G.I. BILL FEE FOR THOSE SERVING IN WARTIME
  Sen. Chuck Hagel (R-NE) plans to reintroduce legislation that would raise the military death benefit paid to the families of military personnel killed while on active duty from $12,000 to $100,000 and eliminate the current G.I. Bill's $1,200 enrollment fee for active duty members of the military. Hagel introduced both bills in the previous Congress.  
   "The demands on our service members and their families have been transformed and increased. To that end, changes must be made to the military death benefit and the G.I. Bill to ensure that they continue to provide realistic and relevant benefits and educational opportunities to those who are defending our country," Hagel said. 
   The military death benefit is money provided within 72 hours to families of service members who are killed while on active duty. These funds assist next-of-kin with their immediate financial needs. 
   "The loss of a loved one is a tremendous emotional hardship for families. Congress must do what it can to ensure that it does not cause devastating financial hardship as well," Hagel said. 
   The G.I. Bill Enhancement Act of 2005 covers any member of the United States military, including Reserve and National Guard members, serving on active duty during the period after President Bush's November 2001 Executive Order that placed the military on a wartime footing. This legislation would: Waive the G.I. Bill enrollment fee until President Bush's November 2001 Executive Order is rescinded; 
   Allow all servicemen and women who have served or are serving on active duty since November 2001 to opt into the G.I. Bill with no penalty or enrollment fee; and 
   Reimburse those servicemen and women who paid the $1,200 enrollment fee. 
   "This is an issue of fundamental fairness. The men and women serving our country in wartime should not have to choose between the long-term benefits of the G.I. Bill and the short-term demands of their paycheck," Hagel concluded.
 
 