SEN. HAGEL'S INTERNATIONAL MEDIATOR LANGUAGE INCLUDED IN LEVIN-REED AMENDMENT ON IRAQ WAR POLICY
  Language offered by U.S. Senator Chuck Hagel (R-NE) that would appoint an international mediator for Iraq under the auspices of the United Nations was included in an amendment today to the FY2008 Department of Defense Authorization bill introduced by Senators Levin (D-MI) and Reed (D-RI). Hagel is a cosponsor of the Levin-Reed amendment. Senator Hagel originally included this language as part of a comprehensive amendment to the FY08 Defense Authorization bill that would change U.S. Iraq War policy.  
   The amendment would also require the president to begin reducing the number of American troops in Iraq within four months. It would further provide that our troops be out of Iraq by April 30, 2008, except for those needed for force protection, training of Iraqi Security Forces, and counterterrorism missions. 
   "This amendment is about more than redefining the mission for our troops and establishing a timeline for a phased withdrawal of combat troops. It establishes the creation of an international mediator under UN auspices who can work toward a political accommodation to break the cycle of violence in Iraq. Greater international involvement which removes the American face from Iraq is the only way to political accommodation. 
   "Special envoys have been instrumental in helping bring political reconciliation to other recent conflicts - Afghanistan, Kosovo, East Timor, Northern Ireland - adapted to the conditions in each country. Iraq needs the international community's help and support if it is to turn away from sectarian violence. Reversing Iraq's slide into chaos is a goal shared by nations around the world. Creating an international mediator would build on this common interest," Hagel said. 
   On May 17, Senator Hagel sent a letter to President Bush and Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice urging their consideration of directing the U.S. Permanent Representative to the United Nations (UN) to propose the appointment of an international mediator in Iraq, under the auspices of the UN Security Council.
 
 