SEN. HAGEL ENCOURAGING OTHER COUNTRIES TO REOPEN THEIR MARKETS TO U.S. BEEF
  Sen. Chuck Hagel (R-NE) praised today's decision by the Japanese government to reopen the Japanese market to U.S. beef from cattle 20 months of age and younger. Hagel sent letters today to the ambassadors of several Asian countries whose markets remain closed to U.S. beef imports, including China, South Korea, Singapore, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand and Taiwan. The letter encourages the countries to work with the United States to resume U.S. beef imports.  
   In the letter to the Ambassadors, Hagel said, "As you know, the Japanese government recently approved the resumption of the importation of U.S. beef. Japan and the U.S. agreed on specific health safety standards under which the Japanese market will reopen to U.S. beef. I would be pleased to meet with you in the near future to discuss this important issue and receive your views on the status of resumption of U.S. beef sales." 
   Last Thursday, in a telephone conversation with Japanese Ambassador Ryozo Kato, Hagel thanked him for visiting Nebraska and discussed the importance of expanding trade to include beef from 30-month animals. In remarks last Friday to the Nebraska Cattlemen annual convention in Kearney, Hagel thanked those in Nebraska's beef and cattle industries who were instrumental in our efforts to resume beef trade with Japan and expressed his hope that, following Japan's example, other countries whose markets are closed to U.S. beef imports would soon resume beef trade with the U.S. 
   Hagel's letter to South Korea's Ambassador is attached. 
   December 12, 2005 
   His Excellency Tae-Sik Lee 
   2450 Massachusetts Avenue, NW 
   Washington, DC 20008 
   Dear Ambassador Lee: 
   I write to encourage your government's resumption of imports of U.S. beef. 
   Since the discovery of one case of Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy (BSE) in the United States in December 2003, the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) has implemented significant new safeguards to ensure that BSE does not enter the human food supply. 
   As you know, the Japanese Government recently approved the resumption of the importation of U.S. beef. Japan and the U.S. agreed on specific health safety standards under which the Japanese market will reopen to U.S. beef. 
   I would be pleased to meet with you in the near future to discuss this important issue and receive your views on the status of resumption of U.S. beef sales in South Korea. 
   Thank you for your consideration. 
   Best wishes.
 
 