SENS. HAGEL-NELSON INTRODUCE RESOLUTION CONGRATULATING BOYS TOWN ON 90TH ANNIVERSARY
  Nebraska's Senators Chuck Hagel and Ben Nelson introduced today a resolution congratulating Boys Town, of Omaha, Nebraska, on its 90th anniversary.  
   "For ninety years Boys Town has served as a beacon of hope for hundreds of thousands of individuals across the nation. Father Flanagan understood when he founded Boys Town that the human condition was at the core of helping and caring for at-risk children. I join all Nebraskans in congratulating Boys Town on its historic anniversary. It continues to represent Nebraska with distinction and honor," Hagel said. 
   "Rising from what were once vast fields of corn far from the center of Omaha, Father Flanagan's vision of a haven for at-risk children began as a small operation with a few buildings and a handful of children. Ninety years later, Boys Town has grown into a center of excellence and a sanctuary for many individuals nationwide, reaching far beyond the borders of our state. Nebraskans are proud of this legacy of hope. I join my fellow Nebraskans in congratulating Father Boes and celebrating this momentous occasion," Nelson said. 
   Founded by father Edward Flanagan in 1917, Boys Town has a ninety year history of helping abused, abandoned and neglected children. Boys Town has now grown into a nationwide organization with 19 sites in 15 states and the District of Columbia, providing more than 47,000 children each year with a safe, caring, loving environment where they gain confidence to get better. 
   RESOLUTION 
   Expressing the congratulations of the Senate to Boys Town, based in Omaha, NE, on their 90th Anniversary celebration. 
   Whereas, on Wednesday, December 12, 2007, Boys Town celebrates the 90th Anniversary of the date Father Flanagan founded his organization serving hurting children and families; 
   Whereas, Father Flanagan's legacy, Boys Town, is a beacon of hope to thousands of young people across the nation; 
   Whereas, last year nearly 450,000 children and families found help through the Boys Town National Hotline, including 34,000 calls from youth where hotline staff intervened to save a life or provide therapeutic counseling, and nearly one million more children were assisted through outreach and training programs; 
   Whereas Boys Town continues to find new ways to bring healing and hope to more children and families; 
   Whereas new programs at Boys Town seek to increase the number of children assisted and bring resources and expertise to bear on the problems facing our nation's children; and 
   Whereas Boys Town's mission is to change the way America cares for children and families by providing and promoting a continuum of care that strengthens them in mind, body and spirit: Now, therefore, be it 
   Resolved, That the Senate - 
   (1) Expresses its heartfelt congratulations to the Boys Town family on the historic occasion of its 90th Anniversary; and 
   (2) Extends its thanks to the extraordinary Boys Town community for its important work with our nation's children and families.
 
 