SEN. HAGEL ISSUES STATEMENT ON 'FOREIGN ASSISTANCE REFORM: SUCCESSES, FAILURES, AND NEXT STEPS'
  "FOREIGN ASSISTANCE REFORM: SUCCESSES, FAILURES, AND NEXT STEPS" Statement by U.S. Senator Chuck Hagel:  
   "Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for convening this important hearing. We welcome Secretary Fore to the Subcommittee today and look forward to her remarks and the opportunity to discuss the ongoing efforts to reform and restructure U.S. foreign assistance. 
   Today's hearing will evaluate the results of the reforms over the last year, explore the issues and challenges that remain, and consider what further changes are needed to ensure that America's foreign assistance framework is relevant to the 21st century. 
   Last January, Secretary Rice announced her intention to implement significant changes to how U.S. taxpayer dollars are spent on foreign assistance. As she said, "the current structure of America's foreign assistance risks incoherent policies and ineffective programs and perhaps even wasted resources...In today's world, America's security is linked to the capacity of foreign governments to govern justly and effectively." 
   I agree and believe that her decision to undertake these reforms was broadly supported. It is time to review the decision-making process in the Executive Branch to ensure coherency, transparency, and effectiveness. Your focus on developing country-specific strategies is a step in the right direction. 
   I believe that it is also time to review the legislative framework, under the 1961 Foreign Assistance Act, to consider whether further structural changes to the U.S. foreign assistance process are needed. Since 1961, a complex, diverse, and sometimes overlapping bureaucracy has emerged to administer U.S. foreign assistance. The State Department and USAID do not control all U.S. foreign assistance, particularly with the recent growth in non-military assistance projects run by the Defense Department. 
   Ultimately, successfully reforming U.S. foreign assistance will require a more comprehensive approach. You need to have all of the relevant Executive Branch agencies involved. You need to consult closely with the dedicated professionals in your organizations. You need to consult and work closely with Congress. And, you need to reach out and engage the hundreds of private organizations that actually implement assistance projects and are on the ground around the world. 
   Secretary Fore, I look forward to hearing from you and the second panel of distinguished experts. 
   I also understand that your nomination to be USAID Administrator is before the Committee and that your paperwork is complete. Mr. Chairman, I hope that Secretary Fore's nomination hearing will be scheduled as quickly as possible. As we know, this is a critical position and the Committee should move to consider Secretary Fore's nomination as soon as possible. 
   Thank you."
 
 