SEN. HAGEL VOTES AGAINST AMENDMENT TO TAKE MONEY AWAY FROM BORDER PATROL AGENTS, OTHER HOMELAND SECURITY PRIORITIES
  The U.S. Senate today voted down an amendment by Sen. Jeff Sessions (R-AL) by a vote of (29-71), which would have cut $1.8 billion from Homeland Security funding to pay for a 370 mile-long fence on America's southern border. The amendment would have cut funding for border patrol agents, border infrastructure, first responders, port security and other homeland security programs. Sen. Chuck Hagel (R-NE) voted against the Sessions Amendment.  
   "It is absurd to ask the taxpayers of Nebraska and the nation to choose between building a fence to help secure our southern border and funding our other homeland security priorities. By enacting the comprehensive immigration reform bill passed by the Senate in May, we can fund our homeland security needs and build a 370 mile-long fence on our southern border, along with providing significant border resources. The Congressional Budget Office estimates that the net revenue from the Senate bill would be roughly $12 billion over ten years. This money would be put back into securing our borders instead of sticking Nebraska taxpayers with the bill. This is all the more reason we need to move as quickly as possible to resolve the differences between the Senate and House and pass a comprehensive immigration reform bill," Hagel said. 
   On May 25th, the Senate passed a comprehensive immigration reform bill which Hagel helped author. The House passed an immigration bill in December, 2005. The differences between the two bills will be resolved in a House-Senate Conference Committee. 
   The bill passed by the Senate: 
   Authorizes the building of a 370 mile-long fence on America's southern border. 
   More than doubles the number of border patrol agents by adding 14,400 new agents to the current force, bringing the total to 25,983; 
   Provides a 70% increase in immigration and customs enforcement officers, bringing the total to 9,500; 
   Quadruples border fencing, enhancement of electronic surveillance, and adds 20 new detention facilities; 
   Requires that aliens with work authorization show a biometric, machine-readable and tamper-resistant identification card; 
   Requires that anyone seeking employment who claims to be a U.S. Citizen must show a machine-readable, tamper-resistant identification card that includes a digital photograph of the individual; 
   Establishes an employee electronic verification system to verify that newly hired employees are legal and increase maximum fines to employers for hiring illegal workers to $20,000 for each worker and impose up to three years of jail; 
   Provides for a workable temporary guest-worker program. Guest workers would need to be employed to apply for a permanent residency green card; 
   Requires that any illegal immigrants who have been in the U.S. five years or more would have to pay a $3,250 fine and back taxes, pass national security and criminal background checks, prove they have worked for at least 3 years, register for military service, demonstrate knowledge of English and American civics and work an additional six years; 
   Requires that illegal immigrants who have been in the U.S. between two and five years leave the U.S. and return through a port of entry in order to obtain a temporary work visa and meet the same requirements as those who have been in the country more than five years; 
   Requires that illegal immigrants who have been in the U.S. less than two years voluntarily return home or be deported; 
   Requires that no one who has entered the country illegally be considered for citizenship before anyone who has played by the rules and gone through the system legally.
 
 