SEN. HAGEL COMMENTS ON FANNIE MAE RESTATEMENT OF EARNINGS
  Sen. Chuck Hagel (R-NE) released the following statement today regarding Fannie Mae's restatement of their earnings last week:  
   "The Washington Post reported today that Fannie Mae's top management provided false assurances to Congress in 2003 regarding Fannie's capital position. Had Fannie executives told the truth, they would have disclosed that Fannie failed to meet its minimum capital requirement. Instead, Fannie has spent $1.4 billion (so far) in accounting and consulting fees to clean up its mess. 
   "Fannie Mae's new financial numbers raise more troubling questions about this agency's incompetency and mismanagement. The reporting only takes us up through 2004. We still don't have Fannie's reporting for 2005 and 2006 and we still don't have any reporting from Freddie Mac. We need a world class GSE regulator to assure America's taxpayers that we are not headed for a financial fiasco. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac must get back to staying within the boundaries of their Congressional charter. They have violated those boundaries. OFHEO should not congratulate Fannie for providing incomplete financial reporting information. The SEC and NYSE should not continue to give Fannie special stock exchange delisting exemptions. 
   "In another astounding story in today's Washington Post, we learn that Fannie continues to spend record levels of money on lobbying Congress ($5.28 million in the first half of this year). At the same time, Congress continues to fail to enact meaningful GSE reform. How does this record multi-million dollar lobbying further Fannie's statutory housing mission? 
   "A central focus of the next Congress must be robust oversight. This must extend to both the GSEs and their regulator. We must also pass meaningful GSE reform which addresses the systemic risks of the GSEs $1.4 trillion portfolio and ensures that the GSEs are adequately capitalized. The safety and soundness of our nations financial system and housing market requires nothing less."
 
 