COMPREHENSIVE SOCIAL SECURITY REFORM LEGISLATION
  Social Security has been one of the most important and successful government programs in the history of America. Almost every American family over the last seventy years has been touched by Social Security. Last Monday, I introduced comprehensive Social Security Reform legislation. I started the day discussing my bill with students at the University of Nebraska at Lincoln. It is their generation that will be asked to sustain the future of Social Security.  
   The Social Security system is not in crisis today, but there is clearly a crisis on the horizon. In 2018, more money will be paid out of Social Security than comes in. In 2042, the Social Security Trust Fund will be insolvent. The current unfunded liability for Social Security over the 75-year horizon the Social Security Administration uses to calculate benefits and expenditures is $3.7 trillion. 
   My Comprehensive Social Security Reform Legislation would make changes to Social Security only for those Americans under the age of 45. No American age 45 or older will see a change in Social Security or their benefits. For Americans under 45, my bill would provide the option of voluntary personal accounts. Government should be about empowering individuals and enhancing personal freedoms and their futures. Personal accounts help do this. 
   Upon passage of the bill, Americans 44 and younger will be given two voluntary options: They can invest four percent of their payroll tax into a personal investment account with the remainder of their payroll tax contribution continuing to go into the traditional Social Security system; or they can continue to invest their entire payroll tax in the traditional Social Security system. Upon retirement, those who choose to enroll in a personal account will have two accounts: their personal account and the traditional Social Security benefit. 
   There are those who will say that allowing individuals to invest their money through personal accounts is too risky. Under my plan, no person is required to have a personal account. An individual who does not want to invest can keep all of their money in the traditional Social Security system. I believe that the policies which enhance personal freedom and responsibility encourage the ethic of savings and limit the role of government. 
   Under my legislation, there is no change to guaranteed survivor and disability benefits. Social Security provides benefits for more than six million spouses and children of breadwinners who have died prematurely or became disabled. I know something about this. When I was 16 years-old, my father died. The Social Security benefits my mother received were critical in helping her raise four young boys. We must remember that the first obligation of Social Security is to the most needy Americans. 
   My legislation makes three adjustments to Social Security that will make it solvent for future generations. First, my bill would raise the current full benefit retirement age by one year - from 67 to 68. Second, my bill would maintain the current early retirement age at 62, but would adjust benefits for those who choose to retire early. Third, currently, an individual's base Social Security benefit is determined by two factors: their average income over 35 years and the wage index. My bill adds a third component: life expectancy. By factoring increased life expectancy into the base benefit calculation, the rate of increase in benefit payments will be slowed. 
   My bill does not raise taxes. We need to begin reforming government programs so that they don't become so large and expensive that future taxpayers will be unable to pay for them. Young wage earners and small businesses are the most vulnerable to tax increases, and they would be the ones most adversely affected by higher taxes to save Social Security. 
   My legislation pays for these changes in Social Security by using the existing $3.7 trillion unfunded liability to ensure the long-term health of the Social Security system. Doing nothing will mean that at the end of 75 years, Social Security will have chewed up 3.7 trillion tax payer dollars to keep Social Security solvent and we will still have an insolvent program with trillions of dollars more of unfunded liabilities staring us in the face.
   It is within our power to preserve the social safety net of this nation. I have introduced this bill because I believe that leaders have a responsibility to deal with the great challenges of their time - not defer them, but to try to fix them and come up with solutions. No comprehensive bill will be immune from critical evaluation, nor should it be. However, I think my bill is a common sense, responsible, and fiscally accountable place to start.
 
 