SEN. HAGEL RECOMMENDS STECHER FOR U.S. ATTORNEY
  Sen. Chuck Hagel (R-NE) has recommended to President Bush that Joe Stecher be nominated for the position of United States Attorney for the District of Nebraska. Stecher currently serves as the acting United States Attorney for Nebraska. Hagel consulted with the Nebraska Congressional delegation and Governor Heineman regarding the recommendation of Stecher.  
   In his letter to President Bush making the recommendation, Hagel said, "Joe Stecher has strong qualifications to be U.S. Attorney and he is in the unique position to provide continuity to the U.S. Attorney's Office in Nebraska. 
   "Mr. Stecher has done an exceptional job over the last few months as acting U.S. Attorney and enjoys widespread support in Nebraska for his nomination to be U.S. Attorney for the District of Nebraska." 
   Stecher became acting U.S. Attorney following the resignation of U.S. Attorney Mike Heavican to become Chief Justice of the Nebraska Supreme Court. Prior to becoming acting U.S. Attorney, Stecher served as Assistant U.S. Attorney. 
   In 2005, Stecher was honored with the Director's Award from the U.S. Attorney's Office for superior performance as an Assistant United States Attorney. Also in 2005, he received the Certificate of Appreciation for Outstanding Performance in the Trial of Criminal Cases in 2004 from Nebraska's U.S. Attorney's Office. Stecher received the Meritorious Achievement Award from the West Central Organized Crime and Drug Task Force from the United States Department of Justice, for exemplary service in successful prosecution in 2002. In 2000, he received the United States Department of Justice Law Enforcement Coordination Committee's Award for Advancing Justice and Cooperation in Nebraska Law Enforcement. 
   Stecher received his Jurist Doctorate from the University of Nebraska College of Law in 1984 and his Bachelor of Science degree from Wayne State College in 1974. From 1996 to 2002, Stecher served as the Director of the Nebraska County Attorney's Association. He also served on Nebraska Governor Mike Johanns' Committee Regarding Agricultural Land Valuation from 1999-2002. 
   "The quality of applicants for the position of U.S. Attorney in Nebraska should make all Nebraskans proud," Hagel said, regarding the field of candidates who expressed interest in the U.S. Attorney position. 
   A separate letter was sent to U.S. Attorney General Alberto Gonzales informing him of the recommendation. The recommendation is now under consideration at the White House.
 
 