SEN. HAGEL COMMENTS ON FARM BILL FIELD HEARING OPENING
  "Mr. Chairman, welcome to Nebraska. We are proud to host this Senate Agriculture Committee Farm Bill Field Hearing. Agriculture is the bedrock of our state's economy. Nebraska producers consistently rank among the top five in the production of live animals and meat products, feed grains and products, soybeans and products, and ethanol and other renewable fuels. The upcoming Farm Bill will significantly impact our state, and we appreciate the opportunity to share our views with you. 
   There are 99 new members of the House of Representatives and 21 new Senators since Congress voted on the 2002 Farm Bill. The Doha round of trade negotiations has stalled over the last month, and the outcome remains unknown. The current drought conditions across the Midwest, budget constraints, global market access, the availability and cost of energy and many other issues will provide the backdrop for the 2007 Farm Bill debate.  
   I voted against the Farm Bill in 2002. Our federal farm policy has drifted far from where it was originally intended to be 70 years ago. We need to re-evaluate the current system and adjust our farm policy for 21st Century challenges and opportunities. 
   Currently, about 70% of farm payments go to roughly 10% of producers. These lopsided payments keep commodity prices low, drive up land prices, and allow large land owners to buy up small agricultural producers with taxpayer dollars. I am an original co-sponsor of the Rural America Preservation Act, which would lower farm payment limits from $360,000 to $250,000. This legislation would also close loopholes that allow individuals who have never farmed a day in their life to collect taxpayer dollars under the guise of "farm payments." 
   Risk management must be a focus of the next Farm Bill. Some parts of Nebraska are suffering from their 8th year of continuous drought. Instead of a safety net already in place, agricultural producers are forced to rely on Congress to pass emergency disaster assistance each year. The next Farm Bill needs to address this issue. We know that natural disasters will continue to occur. Why shouldn't we anticipate them in a forward- thinking Farm Bill? 
   The 2002 Farm Bill has done little to promote rural development. We need to help rural communities jump-start their economies with incentives that will keep talented Nebraskans right here in our state, using provisions like those in the New Homestead Act, which Senator Dorgan and I introduced in the last two Congresses. The New Homestead Act would provide multiple tax credits, loan guarantees, and other incentives to attract individuals and businesses to rural areas. 
   Energy should be a primary focus of the next Farm Bill. We need to increase exploration for oil and natural gas, but we also need to do everything possible to expand the production and use of renewable energy resources like ethanol, biodiesel, solar, wind, geothermal and biomass. Renewable energy means less dependence on foreign oil and more jobs at home - both on and off the farm. 
   Trade will continue to play a central role in the world of agriculture. The future of agriculture lies in international markets. The recent setbacks in the Doha round of global trade negotiations are disappointing, but we must continue to push for greater access to more worldwide markets. There is an irresponsible and dangerous protectionist streak growing in the Congress that must be dealt with. Global trade means more opportunities for America's consumers and producers. 
   Conservation must be an important focus of the new Farm Bill. Conservation has been instrumental in reducing soil erosion and improving water and air quality. Additionally, with the ongoing drought limiting the availability of water, conservation will take on even greater significance. 
   The 2007 Farm Bill will affect the relationship between the government and agricultural producers. It will be critical that Nebraska's agricultural producers get involved in the debate. Lawmakers will rely heavily on the participation and advice of our producers. 
   Thank you for your commitment to helping develop a more effective and relevant Farm Bill. Your efforts today are and will continue to be a necessary component as we begin to write this important legislation. I look forward to hearing from today's witnesses - all national leaders in this critical industry."
 
 