SEN. HAGEL REACTS TO EPA'S ANNOUNCEMENT ABOUT LEAD CLEANUP IN OMAHA
 Sen. Chuck Hagel (R-NE) responded to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) announcement today requiring the Union Pacific Railroad Company in Omaha to complete ongoing soil cleanup work at the Omaha Lead Site, at a cost of $50 million.  
   "It is in everyone's interest that cleanup work at the Omaha Lead Site be completed in the most efficient and effective way possible. However, today's unilateral decision by the EPA is very disturbing and puts Nebraska jobs at risk. The EPA has been presented with many opportunities to work with Union Pacific and Nebraska's Congressional Delegation to reach a settlement on this issue. In September, my Nebraska Congressional Delegation colleagues and I sent a letter to EPA regarding a $500,000 earmark secured in the FY2006 Department of Interior Appropriations bill that would allow EPA to conduct an assessment of lead-based paint in Omaha homes to more accurately determine the risk of lead contamination. The EPA declined the offer. 
   "The Omaha community will benefit most from a comprehensive approach to addressing the exterior and interior lead paint issue. No one is questioning the need to fix the problem. However, the EPA should work with the Department of Housing and Urban Development to address the contamination issue caused by lead paint. Attempting to clean up this site without addressing the lead based paint contaminates makes no sense. Since 2003, Union Pacific has worked closely with members of Nebraska's Congressional Delegation and the EPA to ensure that the superfund site be cleaned up swiftly, safely and securely. Union Pacific has offered to cover the costs of reevaluating the contaminated site and offered to settle the dispute. This settlement was rejected by EPA," Hagel said. 
   Hours before a scheduled telephone call this afternoon with EPA Administrator Stephen L. Johnson, Hagel received notification through an EPA press release regarding the order for Union Pacific. When Hagel voiced his concerns about EPA's announcement today, Administrator Johnson responded that he was not aware of the press release announcing EPA's decision, nor the contents of the press release.
 
 