SHARE HOLIDAY SPIRIT WITH OLDER NEBRASKANS
  The holiday season is a time for family, friends and giving. In our society, much attention is given to young people's wants and needs, however it is equally important to remember older Americans. According to the 2000 U.S. Census, 13.6% of Nebraska's population was age 65 or older. There are a number of ways to help older Nebraskans in our communities during the holidays and make this time of year a joyful and special one.  
   2004 Trees of Love: A program that began 18 years ago in Lincoln, "Trees of Love" distributes gifts to the residents of The Ambassador, Haven Manor, Homestead Health Care, Lancaster Manor, Malone Manor, Milder Manor, Tabitha Health Care and Village Manor nursing homes. The first name and gift wish of the residents are placed on ornaments that are put on trees in all area Wells Fargo Bank branches. People in the community are invited to come to any Wells Fargo, choose an ornament, purchase and wrap the suggested gift and return it to the Wells Fargo. More information about "Trees of Love" can be found by contacting the Eastern Nebraska Area Agency on Aging at 402/441-6101. 
   Giving Tree: The United Way in Grand Island has a program similar to "Trees of Love" for individuals living in nursing homes in Hall, Howard, Hamilton and Merrick counties, as well as those at the Grand Island Veterans Home. If you are interested in purchasing a gift or making a donation to the "Giving Tree" program, call Tanya of the United Way at 308/382-2675. 
   Grand Island Veterans Home: For those Nebraskans who may not be able to visit family and friends who live far away, cards, letters and phone calls are a very important form of communication. Members at the Grand Island Veterans Home are in need of stamps to send correspondence and phone cards to make long-distance calls. Stamps, phone cards and other donations can be sent to the attention of Joanne Badura, Grand Island Veterans Home, 2300 West Capitol Avenue, Grand Island, Nebraska 68803. Call 308/385-6252 extension 452 with questions. 
   Meals on Wheels: "Meals on Wheels" helps ill, homebound or frail individuals receive nutritious and ready to eat meals delivered to their home. Inclement weather and holiday travel often mean that local "Meals on Wheels" programs need extra help during the holidays with food delivery. To find an agency sponsor of the "Meals on Wheels" program in your area, search the Meals on Wheels Association of America website at www.mowaa.org or contact your Area Agency on Aging. 
   Shopping for Seniors: In the Scottsbluff-Gering area, "Shopping for Seniors" is a year-round program that takes place every Tuesday morning. Volunteers take orders and shop for groceries that homebound, ill or disabled seniors request. For more information about this and other programs and how you can donate your time or money, contact Sheryl Spath at the Scotts Bluff County Volunteer Center at 308/632-3736. 
   Spirit of Christmas: The "Spirit of Christmas" program began in 2000 as a program that helps individuals with a variety of services such as paying utility bills, rent, groceries and other needs. Since 2000, the "Spirit of Christmas" program has granted more than 10,700 gifts. Donations for this effort can be sent to the Spirit of Christmas Fund, P.O. Box 234, Superior, Nebraska 68978. 
   Nebraska Area Agencies on Aging: Nebraska has eight agencies on aging and each agency has a wealth of information about the specific needs of the community's elderly population. Agency offices are located in Beatrice, Hastings, Kearney, Lincoln, Norfolk, North Platte, Omaha and Scottsbluff. Contact names and phone numbers for each agency are listed on Nebraska's Department of Health and Human Services website: http://www.hhs.state.ne.us/ags/aaa.htm#nenaaa. 
   There are numerous opportunities to help older generations enjoy the holidays. Shoveling a snowy sidewalk, picking up a neighbor's prescription at the drugstore or engaging in a conversation with an older American are simple gestures that can have a profound impact on their lives. Contact the activities director at the nursing home or elderly care facility nearest you for more information about how you and your family can contribute to an older Nebraskan's warm, happy and safe holidays. 
   Merry Christmas!
 
 