SEN. HAGEL COMMENTS IN SUPPORT OF THE VIETNAM VETERANS MEMORIAL VISITORS CENTER DEADLINE ENFORCEMENT ACT
  Statement by U.S. Senator Chuck Hagel IN SUPPORT OF THE VIETNAM VETERANS MEMORIAL VISITORS CENTER DEADLINE ENFORCEMENT ACT 
   "Chairman Thomas, Ranking Member Akaka, thank you for the opportunity to address the Subcommittee on National Parks. I am here today to express my support for S.2419, the Vietnam Veterans Memorial Visitors Center Deadline Enforcement Act. I am an original co-sponsor of this bill, and I enthusiastically support its passage. 
   The Vietnam Veterans Memorial is a powerful tribute to those who fought and died in Vietnam. As a veteran of the Vietnam War, I have a personal understanding and appreciation of the sacrifices that this memorial represents. With each new generation, however, our citizens lose that personal connection. The Vietnam Veterans Memorial Visitors Center will serve to inform and educate the public about the Vietnam Veterans Memorial, and what it represents. 
   I was the Deputy Administrator of the Veterans Administration when ground was broken for the Vietnam Veterans Memorial in March of 1982. Since then, I have continued to be involved with the Vietnam Veterans Memorial Fund and its efforts to preserve the legacy of the Memorial, promote healing, and educate people about the impact of the Vietnam War on our nation. 
   In 2003, I introduced legislation to authorize the construction of the Vietnam Veterans Memorial Visitors Center at or near the Vietnam Veterans Memorial. In November 2003, President Bush signed that bill into law. Since that time, the Vietnam Veterans Memorial Fund, in conjunction with the National Parks Service, has conducted an extensive site selection study, selected an appropriate site, and worked to gain site approval for the Vietnam Veterans Memorial Visitors Center. 
   The site they selected, commonly referred to as Site "A", is across Henry Bacon Drive from the Vietnam Veterans Memorial. It is the ideal location for the Memorial Visitors Center as it will tie the educational experience together with the Vietnam Veterans Memorial. In consideration of the open space and visual sight-lines on the National Mall, those involved with designing the Memorial Visitors Center have agreed it will be an underground facility. 
   In September 2005, The Commission on Fine Arts approved the site selected by the National Parks Service and the Vietnam Veterans Memorial Fund. With that approval, all that remained in the site selection process was the approval of the National Capitol Planning Commission. 
   Since July 2005 the National Capitol Planning Commission has delayed site approval. The Vietnam Veterans Memorial Fund and the National Parks Service have testified before the National Capitol Planning Commission in July and October, and both times they were instructed to review sites other than the one they had selected. After complying with these requests they were scheduled to testify for a third time in December, until the National Capitol Planning Commission removed them from the agenda the day prior to the hearing. 
   Having observed this process from the beginning, I believe that the National Capitol Planning Commission is attempting to indefinitely delay site approval. This apparent lack of good faith effort on behalf of the National Capitol Planning Commission is what led me to co-sponsor the Vietnam Veterans Memorial Visitors Center Deadline Enforcement Act. The Memorial Visitors Center is far too important to be indefinitely tied up in bureaucratic disagreements. 
   I urge the Committee to pass S.2419 and complete what was intended in the original legislation. 
   Thank you."
 
 