SEN. HAGEL SPEAKS ON CLIMATE CHANGE AT U.N. BRIEFING
  Sen. Hagel Speech on Climate Change at United Nations Briefing "One Day After Kyoto: Next Steps on Climate"  
   "I would like to thank my friend Tim Wirth, the United Nations Foundation, the British Mission to the United Nations, the UN Department of Economic and Social Affairs, and the Rockefeller Brothers Fund for sponsoring this briefing and inviting me to speak on global climate policy. I would also like to thank the United Nations Fund for International Partnerships for hosting this event.  
   Yesterday, the UN Global Climate Treaty, known as the Kyoto Protocol, went into force, requiring more than 30 industrialized nations to significantly cut manmade greenhouse gas emissions by 2012. As you all know, the United States is not a signatory to Kyoto, a position I support. The United States was the first developed country to sign the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change in June 1992, and was active in negotiations leading up to the Kyoto protocol. In July 1997, months before the Protocol was signed, the Senate unanimously passed Senate Resolution 98, the Byrd-Hagel Resolution, which called on the President not to sign any treaty or agreement in Kyoto unless two conditions were met. First, the United States should not be party to any legally binding obligations on greenhouse gas emission reductions unless developing country parties are required to meet the same standards. Second, the President should not sign any treaty that "would result in serious harm to the economy of the United States." 
   The Byrd-Hagel condition on developing countries should be understood as neither a "pass" for the United States and industrialized nations on global climate policy, nor as an unrealistic burden on developing nations. It was instead a legislative initiative to support more realistic and economically based climate policies that include responsibilities for developing countries. 
   The scientific community is not uniform in its assessments of the causes or solutions for dealing with climate change. There is no doubt that human society is having an impact on our environment. There have been numerous studies looking at how man's actions may be affecting the climate. That impact is subject to different interpretations, but human society has contributed to pollution and, evidence suggests, a global warming trend. We also know that global warming trends have occurred in cycles throughout the earth's history. 
   There will always be uncertainties and incomplete information in any climate science or climate policy. But that should not inhibit our commitment to developing climate policies based on sound science. 
   The question we face is not whether we should take action on climate change, but what kind of action we should take. Climate change is a shared responsibility for all nations, including the United States. Global climate policy affects the world's economic, energy, and environmental policies. Climate change does not recognize national borders. Dealing with global climate policy requires a commitment of diplomatic leadership and coordination worthy of the magnitude of the challenge. 
   This week I introduced legislation, with my colleagues Senators Dole (R-NC), Alexander (R-TN) and Craig (R-ID), which I believe can help contribute to a new American and international approach to climate change. It emphasizes the linkages between global environmental, economic, and energy interests, and the priority of working closely with developing countries on these interests. The challenges of a clean environment cannot be separated from the imperatives of growing economies, and the challenges of global poverty and underdevelopment. 
    Our approach to global climate policy builds upon three principles: the need for shared responsibilities between developed and developing countries; the linkages between environmental, economic, and energy policies; and the employment of greenhouse gas intensity as the best measurement upon which to build an effective climate policy. 
   My first principle is that a workable global climate policy should include shared responsibilities and common standards by developed and developing nations in reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Developing nations are becoming the major emitters of greenhouse gases, but they are exempted from the Kyoto Protocol. Within the next 20 years, developing countries are projected to account for two thirds of the growth in carbon dioxide emissions as their populations and economies expand. Any reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by the United States and other developed countries will be eclipsed by emissions from developing nations, such as China, which will soon be the world's largest emitter of manmade greenhouse gases. 
   I understand that developing nations cannot achieve greenhouse gas reductions until they obtain higher standards of living for their people. They lack clean energy technology and they cannot absorb the economic impact of the changes necessary for emissions reductions. Any future policy initiatives must recognize the limitations of developing nations to meet these objectives, and the necessity of including them in any successful future initiative. 
   It is in the interests of the United States and industrialized nations to help developing countries by sharing cleaner energy and environmental technology. Developing countries can then "leapfrog" over the highly polluting stages of development that countries like the U.S. have already been through. 
   This leads me to my second and related point. Global climate policy, or any environmental initiative, cannot be considered in isolation of economic and energy interests. Too often environmental policy has been considered in a kind of vacuum, without sober analysis or appreciation of the economic implications of environmental objectives. Climate policies must combine action on the environment with the need for increased energy resources to fuel economic growth and development, and to reduce poverty in developing countries. That was the message from developing countries at the World Summit on Sustainable Development in Johannesburg in 2002. This will require a market-driven, technology-based approach that complements the world's environmental interests, and connects the public and private sectors. 
   The issue of global climate change must be considered in this wider context of the challenge of economic underdevelopment and global poverty. Five billion of the world's six billion people live in less developed countries. Half of the world lives on less than $2 per day. One billion lack access to clean water sources, and more than 2.5 billion do not have proper sanitation. Forty million people are infected with HIV or living with AIDS, which is the leading cause of death in sub-Saharan Africa. There will be eight billion people by the year 2025. Most of the world's population growth will come from developing countries, where nearly one-in-three people is under age 15. 
   Many governments in the developing world will not be able to meet the basic demands of their populations for jobs, health care, and security. The strains of demography, frustrated economic development, and authoritarian governments contribute to radicalized populations and politics. Part of the solution depends upon sound economic growth strategies. Global climate policies cannot be considered in isolation of the challenges of poverty and underdevelopment. 
   We are most successful in confronting the most difficult issues when we draw on the strength of the private sector. Public-private partnerships meld together the institutional leverage of governments with the innovation of industry. There is a role for diplomacy in global climate policy, as I have mentioned, but technological innovation will come from the private sector, and from public-private partnerships. Creating incentives for private sector participation and technological innovation will be critical to real progress on global climate policy. 
   Global climate policy must give priority to the development of alternative clean energy sources and renewable fuels. Advances in energy efficiency are directly connected to economic and environmental policies. The acceleration of alternative clean energy sources and renewable fuels will depend on technological innovations by private industry, another reason for incentives for public-private partnerships in our climate policy. 
   There is great promise for these clean fuel additives and renewable fuels in the United States and around the world. We should work together to accelerate the development of corn and soy products, such as ethanol and bio-diesel as renewable fuel sources, and accelerate development of wind, hydrogen and nuclear power. I had the opportunity last year to travel to Detroit, Michigan, where I toured the research and technical centers of three major automobile manufacturers. I was particularly interested in the progress of advanced technology vehicles using fuel cells, clean diesel, and hybrids. These developing break-out clean air technologies have the potential to transform our transportation energy efficiency and global climate policy. 
   Let me offer another example of the role that private industry and technological innovation can play in climate policy. An article in the February 4 edition of The Wall Street Journal reported on the potential for "geologic storage" of carbon dioxide as a means to dramatically reduce carbon dioxide emissions. Geologic storage involves pumping carbon dioxide into the ground, rather than dumping it into the atmosphere. BP has been using geologic storage in Algeria's Sahara Desert and Statoil has been working on this in Norway's North Sea. Chevron Texaco is planning a project off the coast of Australia. The article reports that, "the concept is drawing growing interest because it could curb global warming more quickly than switching to alternative energy sources or cutting energy use." There is still much work to be done. But this is the kind of technology that must be employed around the world to achieve meaningful results in reducing greenhouse gas emissions. 
   Third, the science upon which we base our climate policy must reflect realistic measurements and achievable objectives. As you all know, the scientific community is not uniform in its assessments of the causes or solutions for dealing with climate change. There will always be uncertainties and incomplete information. But I believe that greenhouse gas intensity, or the amount of carbon emitted relative to economic output, is the best measurement for dealing with climate change now. Greenhouse gas emission intensity is the measurement of how efficiently a nation uses carbon emitting fuels and technology in producing goods and services. It captures the links between energy efficiency, economic development and the environment. For developing countries, improvements in greenhouse gas intensity can help improve an economy's efficiency and competitiveness. It can and should be the baseline measure for greenhouse gas emission reductions for both developed and developing countries. 
   The legislation I introduced this week in Congress employs greenhouse gas emission intensity as the baseline for U.S. global climate policy. My legislation focuses on the role of technology, private and public partnerships, and developing countries, and includes three specific pieces of legislation: 
   The Climate Change Technology Deployment in Developing Countries Act; 
   The Climate Change Technology Deployment Act; and, 
   The Climate Change Technology Tax Incentives Act. 
   The Climate Change Technology Deployment in Developing Countries Act provides the Secretary of State with new authority for coordinating assistance to developing countries for projects and technologies that reduce greenhouse gas intensity. It supports the development of a U.S. global climate strategy to expand the role of the private sector, develop public-private partnerships, and encourage the deployment of greenhouse gas reducing technologies in developing countries. This bill directs the Secretary of State to engage global climate change as a foreign policy issue, and the U.S. Trade Representative to negotiate the removal of trade-related barriers to the export of greenhouse gas intensity reducing technologies. It establishes an inter-agency working group to promote the export of greenhouse gas intensity reducing technologies and practices from the United States. The legislation authorizes fellowship and exchange programs for foreign officials to visit the United States and acquire the expertise and knowledge to reduce greenhouse gas intensity in their countries, and includes tax incentives for American businesses to work with foreign countries to help develop clean energy projects and fuel-efficient technologies. 
   The second bill, the Climate Change Technology Deployment Act, supports establishing domestic public-private partnerships for demonstration projects that employ greenhouse gas intensity reduction technologies. My plan provides credit-based financial assistance and investment protection for American businesses and projects that deploy advanced climate technologies or systems. Federal financial assistance includes direct loans, loan guarantees, standby interest coverage, and power production incentive payments. 
   This bill also directs the Secretary of Energy to develop and implement a national climate strategy provided by the Office of Science and Technology Policy. It establishes a Climate Coordinating Committee and Climate Credit Board to assess, approve and fund these projects. 
   The third bill, the Climate Change Technology Tax Incentives Act, amends the U.S. Tax Code to provide incentives for investment in climate change technology. It makes permanent the current research and development tax credit, which otherwise expires on December 31st. 
   In December, I discussed climate change with Prime Minister Blair in London and I know he supports Kyoto. But I do believe that he also understands the limitations of Kyoto, the essential role of technology in addressing climate change, and the need for collective action. He would be receptive to a new U.S. initiative that bridges the differences between developed and developing countries. As Blair pointed out last month at the World Economic Forum at Davos, "It is through the fresh injection of political will, by the G-8 and the emerging economies alike, that these differences can be broken down and a new global consensus reached." Prime Minister Blair is right. A fresh injection of political will is needed to achieve a global consensus on climate change. The United States must be part of that consensus. 
   Achieving reductions in manmade greenhouse gas emissions is one of the important challenges of our time. As a signatory to the UN Climate Change Convention, America must remain engaged in international initiatives to reduce manmade greenhouse gas emissions. America has an opportunity and a responsibility for global climate policy leadership. I have discussed global climate policy with Secretary Rice, and I believe she understands the opportunities for American leadership and engagement on this issue. I look forward to working with the U.S. Congress, the Bush Administration, the United Nations, the private sector, public interest groups, and America's allies on achievable climate change policy. By harnessing our many strengths, we can help shape a worthy future for all people, and build a better world. 
   Thank you."
 
 