SEN. HAGEL ANNOUNCES MILITARY ACADEMY NOMINEES
  Sen. Chuck Hagel nominated nine students from Omaha, Nebraska for admission to the U.S. Service Academies. Hagel nominated Neal C. Holmes, Nick G.L. Green, Lyle D. Newburn, Robert M. Donovan and John W. Pritchard for admission to the U.S. Naval Academy; Rachel C. Anderson and George P. Faulconbridge for admission to the U.S. Military Academy, and Theodore J. Labedz and Jared D. Widseth for admission to the U.S. Air Force Academy.  
   Applicants were required to meet with one of three regional academy selection committees that Hagel has set-up to assist him in the evaluation of academy candidates. They were judged on their high school transcripts, academic achievement, ACT/SAT scores, career motivation, self-assurance, leadership, extra-curricular and community activities, and an essay on the Academy Honor Code, "We will not lie, steal or cheat nor tolerate among us anyone who does." The four academies will make their selections for the class of 2011 from these appointees. 
   "I am proud to announce these academy nominations from Omaha. These outstanding young people will be our nation's leaders in the 21st century," said Hagel. 
   Holmes attends Concordia High School and is the son of Todd and Holly Holmes. Green attends Westside High School and is the son of Jeffry and Barbara Green. Newburn attends Concordia High School and is the son of Lyle and Lori Newburn. Donovan attends Creighton Prep High School and is the son of Tom and Jacque Donovan. Pritchard attends Mount Michael Benedictine High School and is the son of John and Jenelle Pritchard. 
   Anderson attends Westside High School and is the daughter of S.C. Baker and Rebecca Anderson. Faulconbridge attends Creighton Prep High School and is the son of Jean Faulconbridge and Gary Putrino. 
   Labedz attends Skutt Catholic High School and is the son of Joseph and Jackie Labedz. Widseth attends Millard West High School and is the son of Chris and Kim Widseth.
   Contact: Mike Buttry, 202/224-4224.
 
 