SEN. HAGEL BILL AIMS TO REVITALIZE RURAL COMMUNITIES
  Sens. Chuck Hagel (R-NE) and Byron Dorgan (D-ND) re-introduced legislation last night that aims to help reverse the long trend of population decline in rural America. The legislation, the New Homestead Act, builds on the concept of the Homestead Act of 1862 by offering incentives to individuals, businesses and investors.  
   Of Nebraska's 93 counties, 56 have experienced a net out-migration of at least 10% over the past 20 years. 
   "Rural Nebraska has been hit hard over the years by people leaving for urban areas. With the drought and economic hardship affecting rural America, more people are having to leave for other jobs and opportunities. This bill gives people incentives to re-locate or stay in our rural communities," Hagel said. 
   The bill has strong bi-partisan support among Senators and is endorsed by the following Nebraskan organizations: Center for Rural Affairs; Nebraska Department of Economic Development; Nebraska Soybean Growers; Nebraska Rural Development Commission; Nebraska Wheat Growers; Nebraska Lied Main Street; Nebraska Farm Bureau; Nebraska Community Foundation; Nebraska Cattlemen and the Nebraska Ag Department. 
   "The intent of the legislation is simple - it aims to help reverse the trend of population decline in rural areas and provide growth and opportunities in rural America," Hagel concluded. 
   ATTACHED IS A SUMMARY OF THE NEW HOMESTEAD ACT. 
   Summary of The New Homestead Act: 
   SECTION I. 
   For individuals who live in high out-migration countries (population loss of at least 10% over the past 20 years - that qualifies 56 of 93 Nebraska counties): 
   Forgiveness of up to 50% (maximum of $15,000) of college loans for recent graduates who live and work in these counties for 5 years. 
   $5,000 tax credit for home purchases to those who locate in eligible areas for at least 5 years. 
   Deduction for losses in home values in high out-migration counties. 
   Individual Homestead Accounts that individuals can use for education expenses, medical expenses, first-time home purchases and small business expenses. 
   SECTION II. 
   For small businesses and entrepreneurs, the measure creates a Rural Investment Tax Credit for states and counties. This could be used to build or expand a small business in a high out-migration area. Qualifying out-migration counties would be eligible for $1 million in tax credits, each. (20% of these credits would be required to go to micro-businesses - business with 5 or fewer employees.) 
   SECTION III. 
   $3 billion Venture Capital Fund is the last section of the bill, to address the need for start-up capital. Small firms located in rural areas need capital to exist and expand. However, rural financial institutions are consolidating or fading away altogether. 
   This bill's Venture Capital Fund - using a collection of federal, state and private money - would help attract business ventures. This concept of joint public-private capital formation is being used effectively today in some states, such as Oklahoma.
 
 