A VICTORY FOR COMMON SENSE
  Energy is the great connector. It touches every facet of our lives. Our economy, agriculture production, and national security are all directly tied to energy. No Nebraskan needs to look any further than the $2.10 we are paying for a gallon of unleaded gasoline to see how energy touches them.  
   For decades our country has drifted without a national energy policy. This has left us dependent on other nations in the most unstable parts of the world for our energy supply. On Wednesday, the United States Senate took a common-sense step forward in expanding America's domestic energy supply when we voted to authorize oil exploration in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR). 
   Oil exploration in ANWR has become one of the most politically distorted issues of our time. Reason and balance have been squeezed out by overheated rhetoric and distortion. The reality of this debate is quite simple: First, we desperately need to expand our domestic energy supply. Second, ANWR contains significant energy resources that can be developed in an environmentally responsible way. 
   America's consumption of foreign oil has been heading in an alarming direction. In 1973, the United States imported 35 percent of its oil. In 1990, imports had climbed to 42 percent. Today, we import 58 percent of our oil. Oil imports are expected to reach 68 percent in 2025. If we are to maintain our competitive position in the world over the coming decades, then we must reverse this trend. We do not have the option of deferring tough choices about our energy supply any longer. 
   Our dependence on foreign oil leaves us vulnerable to the political instability and economic pressures of foreign nations. This jeopardizes our national security and our ability to grow our economy, especially agriculture. Agriculture is one of the most energy intensive parts of our economy. Since 2002, the cost of fertilizer has doubled at an increase of $20 per acre. That means an additional $5,000 in costs for 250 acres. 
   ANWR is the single largest and most promising onshore oil reserve in North America. In 1998, the United States Geological Service estimated that there is between 15.6 billion and 42.3 billion barrels of oil in ANWR. Once developed, ANWR would provide the United States with about 90,000 barrels a day- about 4.5 percent of today's domestic energy consumption- for the next 30 years. Additionally, the Wharton Economics Forecasting Associates has estimated that ANWR will produce 735,000 jobs across the United States. 
   People have raised serious concerns about the environmental impact of energy exploration in ANWR. These are serious concerns that are addressed in the action taken by the Senate. 
   ANWR is roughly the size of South Carolina. It covers 19.8 million acres. The maximum surface area allowed to be occupied by production and support facilities would be limited to 2,000 acres. The bill also mandates that the leasing program in ANWR must result in "no significant adverse effect" on wildlife, habitat or the environment. All drilling is subject to site reviews. Finally, oil and gas companies must fully restore the affected land to pre-development conditions. 
   Another argument made by those opposed to energy exploration in ANWR is that we should be pursuing alternative sources of energy rather than oil. They are correct. We should be exploring all options for the expansion of renewable fuels, but not at the exclusion of oil and natural gas production. We need every means of responsible domestic energy production to reduce our dependence on foreign oil. 
   Our future energy needs will be met by a wider and deeper portfolio of energy resources, such as renewable sources of energy. This week, I joined a bipartisan group of colleagues in reintroducing legislation I first introduced in 2001 to create a national Renewable Fuels Standard. Under this legislation, the nation's use of ethanol and biodiesel will gradually increase from 4 billion gallons in 2006 to 8 billion gallons in 2012. 
   ANWR is not the only answer to fixing U.S. dependence on foreign oil. But it is part of the answer. The Senate's actions this week put us on a path towards developing ANWR's resources in an environmentally responsible way.
 
 