SEN. HAGEL COMMENTS ON PRESIDENT BUSH'S STATE OF THE UNION ADDRESS
  Sen. Chuck Hagel (R-NE) issued the following statement regarding President Bush's State of the Union Address, delivered tonight. In his speech, President Bush proposed the creation of a national commission on entitlement reform. Last year, Hagel and Rep. John Tanner (D-TN) introduced legislation to create a national commission on entitlement reform:  
   "The President addressed issues tonight that are critical to America's future such as energy security, health care, comprehensive immigration reform, and the global war on terror. I was especially encouraged by the President's proposal of a national commission on entitlement reform, along with his focus on helping small businesses provide health insurance to employees and new initiatives to expand the use of renewable fuels and technologies. 
   "I look forward to working with the President and his administration on issues that will strengthen America's competitive position in the world." 
   Attached is a fact sheet on the Hagel/Tanner legislation to create a Comprehensive Entitlement Reform Commission 
   Comprehensive Entitlement Reform Commission Act of 2005 
   U.S. Senator Chuck Hagel (R-NE) 
   U.S. Congressman John Tanner (D-TN) 
   Purpose: 
   The Entitlement Reform Commission will review Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid and make comprehensive recommendations to sustain the solvency and stability of these three programs for future generations. 
   Facts: 
   Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid face a $42 trillion unfunded commitment over the next 75 years. (Source: Government Accountability Office; Social Security Administration; Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services; Congressional Research Service) 
   The Social Security Trust Fund will pay out more money than it takes in beginning in 2017 and will be exhausted in 2041. Social Security faces a $4 trillion unfunded commitment over the next 75 years. (Source: Social Security Administration) 
   The Medicare Part A Trust Fund (hospital insurance) will be exhausted in 2020 and faces an $8.6 trillion unfunded commitment over the next 75 years. (Source: Government Accountability Office; Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services) 
   The Medicare Part B (supplementary medical insurance) faces a $12.4 trillion unfunded commitment over the next 75 years. (Source: Government Accountability Office; Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services) 
   The Medicare Part D (prescription drugs) faces an $8.7 trillion unfunded commitment over the next 75 years. (Source: Government Accountability Office; Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services) 
   Medicaid faces an $8.4 trillion unfunded commitment over the next 75 years. (Source: Congressional Research Service report - August 2005) 
   Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid represent America's three major entitlement programs. Together, these programs make up 78% of total mandatory spending. (Source: Office of Management and Budget) 
   Spending on Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid is projected to increase from 8.4% of gross domestic product (GDP) in 2005 to 18.9% of GDP by 2050. (Source: Heritage Foundation) 
   In March 2005, Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan urged Congress to act on modernizing entitlement programs, "sooner rather than later." He warned that unless we act now to meet the huge unfunded commitments of our entitlement programs, there will be significant economic consequences for our nation. 
   We need to comprehensively reform these programs so they are sustainable for future generations. 
   Commission Overview: 
   * The Commission will be comprised of 8 total members. The House Speaker, House Minority Leader, Senate Majority Leader and Senate Minority Leader will each appoint two members. Commission members cannot be elected Federal, State or local government officials. 
   The Commission shall select two Co-Chairmen from among its members. 
   All appointments must be made 30 days after enactment of the Act. 
   * Following the appointment of all Commission members, the Commission will have an initial organization period of two months to establish an outline for work. The Commission work will fall under the Federal Advisory Committee Act requiring Government Accountability Office oversight and full public access. 
   The Commission shall appoint an Executive Director. The Executive Director will hire additional staff with approval of the Commission Co-Chairmen. 
   The Commission is required to submit the final report to the President and Congress one year after the selection of the two Co-Chairmen of the Commission and the Executive Director. 
   * Congress is required to hold Committee hearings to review the Commission's recommendations. 
   The legislation authorizes $1.5 million to carry out the necessary tasks of the Commission, such as salary for the Executive Director and staff and travel expenses for the members. Members will not be compensated with salary.
 
 