PENTAGON OFFICIALS ANNOUNCE SUPPORT FOR SEN. HAGEL'S PLAN TO INCREASE MILITARY SURVIVOR BENEFIT
  In a hearing before the United States Senate Armed Services Committee today, Pentagon officials announced plans to increase survivor benefit payments to the families of those killed in combat zones from $12,420 to $100,000. The increase in survivor benefits mirrors legislation introduced last year by Sen. Chuck Hagel (R-NE). Hagel reintroduced the legislation last week.  
   "Increasing the survivor benefit from $12,420 to $100,000 is the responsible thing to do. The Administration is right to support this. Congress must act on this legislation." 
   "The demands on our service members and their families have been transformed and increased. To that end, changes must be made to the military survivor benefit to ensure that they continue to provide realistic and relevant benefits," Hagel said. 
   The military survivor benefit is money provided immediately to families of service members who are killed while on active duty. These funds assist next-of-kin with their immediate financial needs. Hagel's legislation would apply retroactively to the families of those killed in Iraq or Afghanistan. 
   Attached is a statement Hagel included into the Record at the hearing 
   Statement by Senator Chuck Hagel 
  "Military Death Benefit Improvement Act of 2005" 
  Senate Armed Services Committee 
   February 1, 2005 
   Chairman Warner and Senator Levin, thank you for holding this very important hearing on survivor benefits for our latest generation of warriors who have given their lives in service to our country. This Committee makes a clear statement to America about the priorities of our country: our men and women in uniform and their families. 
   On January 23rd, the Lincoln Journal Star reported that Nebraska ranks 5th in the number of military deaths per capita in Iraq. In the story, the families of Marine Captain Travis Ford of Ogallala, Marine Corporal Matt Henderson of Lincoln, Army Sergeant Cory Mracek of Hay Springs and Marine Private Noah Boye of Grand Island shared their personal stories of how they have grieved and are struggling to grasp life without their loved one. Their stories are filled with hardship. But they are also filled with a strong will and determination to let the memory and legacy of our soldiers live proudly in their hearts and communities. These stories inspire all of us and make us proud to be Americans. 
   Last Monday, I re-introduced legislation to raise the military survivor benefit paid to the families of military personnel killed while on active duty from $12,420 to $100,000. The families of our first responders across the nation receive between $50,000 and $100,000 as a survivor benefit for the loss of their firefighter or police officer. My legislation proposes that this legislation apply retroactively to all service members on active duty who have died after September 11, 2001. 
   The military death gratuity is money provided immediately to families of our service members who are killed while on active duty. These funds assist next-of-kin with their immediate financial needs. These financial needs and challenges are no different for the families of service members who have lost their lives outside combat zones than they are for those who have died in Iraq or Afghanistan. My legislation therefore increases the military death gratuity for all service members who die while on active duty. This is an issue of fundamental fairness. 
   As we face the challenges of the 21st Century, servicemen and women sacrificing for their country in a time of war need to be assured that, should the worst occur, their families will be properly provided for. The loss of a loved one is a tremendous emotional hardship for families. Congress should do what it can to ensure that it does not cause extreme financial hardship as well. 
   Though nothing can replace the hole torn in a family by the loss of a son, daughter, mother or father, the "Military Death Benefit Improvement Act of 2005" will help alleviate some of the financial hardships faced by the families of our brave servicemen and women who give their lives in service to our country. It will send a message to our brave young men and women and their families that their Nation appreciates their service and sacrifice. I urge my colleagues on the Armed Services Committee to move swiftly to improve the death benefits paid to the families of the brave men and women who give their lives in service to our great country. 
   Thank you.
 
 