SEN. HAGEL ANNOUNCES LIVESTOCK PRODUCERS IN 50 NEBRASKA COUNTIES ARE ELIGIBLE FOR TAX DEFERMENT EXTENSION
  U.S. Senator Chuck Hagel (R-NE) today announced that livestock producers in 50 Nebraska counties who have been forced to sell livestock since January 2003 due to drought have been granted a tax deferment on capital gains. Producers in these counties will not have to pay taxes on the capital gains which they realized on involuntarily sold livestock for up to one year after drought conditions end. Last year, Senator Hagel wrote a letter to former Treasury Secretary Snow requesting this extension. Since that time, Hagel, working directly with Treasury Secretary Paulson, has ensured that this tax relief be extended for Nebraska's livestock producers.  
   "Nebraska's agriculture producers have suffered through years of relentless drought. Today's announcement provides continued relief to producers to help them sustain their operations. I appreciate Secretary Paulson's work on this issue, and I will continue to work with my colleagues and administration officials to find ways to help Nebraska producers," Hagel said. 
   Section 1033(e) of the Tax Code gave producers four years to either purchase replacements for livestock that they were forced to sell due to weather-related conditions, or pay taxes on the capital gains which they realized on involuntarily sold livestock. This portion of the tax code went into effect in January 2003, and was set to expire at the beginning of 2007. 
   Due to Senator Hagel's efforts last year, the Department of Treasury now works with the National Drought Mitigation Center once a year to compile a list of counties where livestock producers are eligible for an extension of the capital gains tax deferment. Now, livestock producers are able to defer the capital gains tax until one year after the drought conditions end. 
   Livestock producers with operations in the following 50 Nebraska counties are eligible for the tax deferment: Antelope, Arthur, Banner, Blaine, Box Butte, Boyd, Brown, Buffalo, Cedar, Chase, Cherry, Cheyenne, Custer, Dawes, Dawson, Deuel, Dixon, Dundy, Frontier, Furnas, Garden, Garfield, Gosper, Grant, Greeley, Hayes, Hitchcock, Holt, Hooker, Howard, Keith, Keya Paha, Kimball, Knox, Lincoln, Logan, Loup, McPherson, Morrill, Perkins, Pierce, Red Willow, Rock, Scotts, Bluff, Sheridan, Sherman, Sioux, Thomas, Valley, and Wheeler.
   Contact: Jeffrey Marshall, 202/622-7287.
 
 