SEN. HAGEL ANNOUNCES JAPANESE AMBASSADOR TO VISIT NEBRASKA
  Sen. Chuck Hagel (R-NE) announced today that Japanese Ambassador Ryozo Kato has accepted an invitation by Hagel to visit Nebraska next week. The trip will give the Japanese Ambassador a first hand look at the preparation and packaging of U.S. beef products as the Japanese government considers the re-opening of Japan to U.S. beef.  
   In a letter to Ambassador Kato Hagel said, "I write to invite you to visit the State of Nebraska in the next couple of weeks to gain first hand knowledge of the varying interests involved in the U.S. beef industry. More than a year ago, the U.S. committed to work with Japan to develop and implement a policy based on international scientific guidelines developed by the World Organization for Animal health. A visit to Nebraska will give you an opportunity to see that policy at work." 
   On Friday, October 28th, Ambassador Kato and Senator Hagel will tour Timmerman & Sons Feeding Company, Inc. in Springfield and the Greater Omaha Packing Company in Omaha. Visiting both companies will allow the Ambassador to see the stringent requirements of U.S. policy on beef safety and the impact the Japanese ban on U.S. beef products has had on Nebraska. 
   U.S. beef exports to Japan were suspended following the discovery of one case of Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy (BSE) in an American cow. Since December 2003, Hagel has worked with the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) and the Japanese Government to open up the Japanese market to U.S. beef products. Japan was the U.S.'s largest beef export market, valued at an estimated $1.4 billion in 2003. 
   Attached is the Hagel letter to Ambassador Kato 
   October 11, 2005 
   The Honorable Ryozo Kato 
  Japanese Ambassador to the United States 
  Embassy of Japan 
  2520 Massachusetts Avenue, NW 
  Washington, DC 20008 
   Dear Ambassador Kato: 
   I write to invite you to visit the State of Nebraska in the next couple of weeks to gain first hand knowledge of the varying interests involved in the U.S. beef industry. 
   As you know, the beef industry is an area of shared interest between the United States and Japan. Since the discovery of Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy (BSE) in an American cow in December 2003, the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) has implemented several new measures to ensure that BSE does not enter the human food supply. 
   More than a year ago, the U.S. committed to work with Japan to develop and implement a policy based on international scientific guidelines developed by the World Organization for Animal Health. A visit to Nebraska would allow you an opportunity to see that policy at work. 
   We would work to accommodate your schedule. 
   Best wishes. 
   Sincerely, 
   Chuck Hagel
 
 