SEN. HAGEL ANNOUNCES STAFF CHANGES
  Sen. Chuck Hagel (R-NE) announced today that Tom Janssen will return to his staff as Deputy Chief of Staff. Janssen will be based in Omaha and manage all policy and administrative issues as they relate to Nebraska. He will start after Labor Day.  
   Janssen, originally from Crofton, Nebraska, previously served as Hagel's State Director from 1997 until fall of 2003. Prior to serving as Hagel's State Director, Janssen was the Organizational Director of Hagel's 1996 campaign for the United States Senate. Janssen also served as Hagel's Campaign Manager in 2002. Most recently, Janssen has been Director of Corporate Development for Kiewit Corporation in Omaha. Janssen is an Air Force veteran and served in the Persian Gulf War in 1991. 
   "Tom is a trusted advisor who has been with me since I first ran for the Senate. One of the most important responsibilities I have as a Senator is to provide constituent services to Nebraskans. Tom brings a deep base of leadership, experience and judgement to the job of connecting Nebraskans with their government," Hagel said. 
   "I believe in what Senator Hagel and his staff are doing for Nebraska and America. He has an unwavering integrity and a true honesty that is hard to find in politics. I missed being a part of his team. I'm honored to be back serving Senator Hagel and Nebraska," Janssen said. 
   Earlier this month, Hagel's current State Director Bill Protexter announced his intentions to start his own government affairs consulting business in Omaha. Protexter replaced Janssen as Hagel's State Director in August of 2003. 
   "I am grateful for Bill Protexter's two years of service and proud of the work we did together. Bill is a respected public servant and a friend. I wish him well in his upcoming endeavors and look forward to working with him in the future," Hagel concluded. 
   "Working for Nebraska on behalf of Senator Hagel was very rewarding. It was an honor to bring the services and assistance of Senator Hagel's Nebraska offices to countless citizens the past two years," Protexter said.
 
 