SEN. HAGEL ANNOUNCES HEALTH CARE REFORM COMMISSION
  Sen. Chuck Hagel (R-NE) announced today at the University of Nebraska Medical Center (UNMC) the formation of a Health Care Reform Commission. The purpose of the Commission is to review the current state of health care and present recommendations to develop a sustainable, accessible, affordable and quality health care system for the 21st century. The Commission will bring together key professionals and leaders from Nebraska's and the nation's health care fields. 
   "I hear about health care issues from Nebraskans every day. It is an issue that touches the lives of every American. As medical technologies advance and our population ages, health care will become increasingly important to maintaining America's competitive position in the world. The Commission's work will help develop new ideas to meet America's health care needs in the 21st century," Hagel said.  
   Hagel announced that Chuck Marr, founding CEO of Alegent Health in Omaha, will serve as the Commission's Chairman. "Having accessible, affordable and quality health care is the desire of every American. The task of the Health Care Reform Commission is to evaluate our current health care system and recommend new approaches which will assure a sustainable health care system for every family. We look forward to working with Senator Hagel in this important and far-reaching work," Marr said. 
   The Commission will focus on all facets of health care, including health care costs and access to reliable health care. The Commission will have one year to produce a written report about the current state of health care and present recommendations to Senator Hagel. 
   "I am grateful to the health care professionals who have volunteered their time, energy and expertise to this project. I am especially grateful to Chuck Marr for agreeing to head the Commission," Hagel said. 
   Attached is a fact sheet detailing the Health Care Reform Commission. 
   Health Care Reform Commission 
   U.S. Senator Chuck Hagel (R-NE) 
   Purpose: 
   The Commission on Health Care Reform will review the current state of health care and present recommendations to develop a sustainable, accessible, affordable and quality health care system for the 21st century. 
   Mandate: 
   The final report of recommendations will define the challenges facing the U.S. health care system, and recommend legislative initiatives that need to be made at the federal level to accomplish this mandate. The Commission will focus on the following areas: 
   Improvement of health care quality and delivery in America. 
   Containment of health care costs. 
   Role medical science and technology will continue to have in health care reform. 
   Improvement of access to health care for all Americans. 
   Exploring more effective financing vehicles for American health care than current public and private plans. 
   Addressing the "baby boom" demographic and its impact on future health care costs and services. 
   Reporting Requirements: 
   The Commission will submit its final report of recommendations 12 months after it begins its work. 
   Commission Members: 
   Commission Chairman Chuck Marr, founding CEO of Alegent Health; Dr. Todd Sorensen, Regional West Medical Center; Jack Vetter, Vetter Health Services, Inc.; Dr. Keith Mueller, UNMC; Mike DeFreece, MarketSphere Consulting, LLC; Dr. Daniel Wilson, Creighton University Medical Center; Dr. Mary Lee Fitzsimmons, Iowa/Nebraska Primary Care Association; Dr. J. Chris Bradberry, Creighton University Medical Center; Steve Martin, Blue Cross/Blue Shield of Nebraska; Lisa Lechowicz, HDM Corporation; Dr. Dennis Goeschel, UNMC; Dr. Virginia Tilden, UNMC; Dr. Bill Bush, doctor of Private Practice in Anesthesiology; Jim Berarducci, Kurt Salmon Associates, Inc. and Dr. Charles Gregorius, Associated Anesthesiologists. 
   Attached are bios for each Commission member 
   Health Care Reform Commission Biographies 
   Charles J. Marr is the Founding CEO of Alegent Health in Omaha. Prior to his service at Alegent Health, he served as the President/CEO of both Immanuel Healthcare Systems of Omaha and Regional West Medical Center of Scottsbluff. He is currently active in the Omaha community, serving as President of the Omaha Sister Cities Association and Vice-Chair of the Midland Lutheran College Board of Trustees. 
   Jim Berarducci is Vice-President and Managing Director of Kurt Salmon Associates of Minneapolis, Minnesota. Mr. Berarducci has been involved in a wide variety of engagements in a broad range of health care settings with Kurt Salmon Associates for over fifteen years. His client list includes tertiary and community hospitals, academic medical centers, integrated systems, and physician group practices. Mr. Berarducci has directed a number of large, complex, and multi-functional planning engagements, including strategic planning, consolidation and integration efforts, financial performance improvements and facility master planning through major building projects. Mr. Berarducci received his Masters of Healthcare Administration from the University of Minnesota. 
   Dr. J. Chris Bradberry is Dean of the School of Pharmacy and Health Professions at Creighton University. Dr. Bradberry earned his baccalaureate degree in pharmacy and masters degree in hospital pharmacy from the University of Louisiana at Monroe. He completed his doctor of pharmacy degree at the University of Tennessee Health Sciences Center, Memphis, and his residency in pharmacy at the University of Texas Medical Branch, Galveston. Dr. Bradberry served the Indian Health Service as the Chief Pharmacy Officer of the Chinle Health Center and has practiced in both community and institutional pharmacy. He has been on the faculties of the University of Nebraska, the University of Texas, the University of Oklahoma and the University of Tennessee. In August 2003, Dr. Bradberry was appointed to his current position at Creighton University. 
   Dr. William Bush earned his baccalaureate from Emory University in Atlanta, Georgia. He completed his doctor of anesthesiology degree at the Medical College of Georgia. Dr. Bush served in the US Navy at the Naval Hospital of Portsmouth, Virginia, and then moved into private practice of anesthesiology in Florida. Since his retirement, Dr. Bush remains active in the community and volunteers with programs relating to education and child care. Dr. Bush resides in Nokomis, Florida. 
   Mike DeFreece is Chairman and Chief Administrative Officer of MarketSphere Consulting, LLC. Mr. DeFreece has deep consulting expertise, specializing in financial services to the healthcare industry. Prior to joining MarketSphere, Mr. DeFreece was a Managing Director of McCarthy & Co., an Omaha-based investment banking firm. He is also a retired Arthur Andersen Partner where he spent many years providing services for the healthcare industry. Mr. DeFreece is a Fellow in the Health Care Financial Management Association and was a member of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants' National Health Care Committee for many years. 
   Dr. Mary Lee Fitzsimmons is the Nebraska Member Services Director of the Iowa/Nebraska Primary Care Association. Dr. Fitzsimmons assists the Association in providing development support services and programs to its member community and migrant health centers in Nebraska. Dr. Fitzsimmons served as the Executive Director of Omaha's OneWorld Community Health Center for nine years, providing comprehensive health care to some 6,500 minority patients annually. Dr. Fitzsimmons earned her bachelor's degree in nursing from Creighton University and her doctorate in Psychological and Cultural Studies from the University of Nebraska at Lincoln. Dr. Fitzsimmons was a winner of Omaha's YWCA Tribute to Women award. 
   Dr. Dennis Goeschel is Vice-Chairman of the Department of Family Medicine at the University of Nebraska Medical Center. Dr. Goeschel earned his medical degree at the University of Nebraska Medical Center and completed his residency in family practice at UNMC. Following his residency, Dr. Goeschel went into private practice in Scottsbluff County, Nebraska and served the Medical Committee of Regional West Medical Center in Scottsbluff for 12 years. Dr. Goeschel is a member of the National Board of Medical Examiners, the American Board of Family Practice and the American Academy of Family Physicians. 
   Dr. Charles D. Gregorius is a physician with Associated Anesthesiologists, P.C., in Lincoln, Nebraska. Dr. Gregorius earned his medical degree at the University of Nebraska College of Medicine and completed his residency in anethesia at the University of Missouri Medical Center in Columbia. Dr. Gregorius is a member of the American Society of Anesthesiologists, the Nebraska Society of Anesthesiologists, the Nebraska Medical Association, the Lancaster County Medical Society and the International Anesthesia Research Society. 
   Lisa Lechowicz is the Founder and Chief Executive Officer of HDM Corporation. Before establishing HDM, Ms. Lechowicz served as Senior Vice President of Health Care Business Operations for Mutual of Omaha. Ms. Lechowicz has an extensive background in systems development, project and process management, consulting, planning, and claims management within the health insurance industry. Ms. Lechowicz is involved in numerous community activities including volunteering with the Nebraska Choral Arts Society and serving as Chair of the United Way of the Midlands Campaign. She also serves as an instructor at Metropolitan Community College. 
   Steven S. Martin is the President & CEO of Blue Cross/Blue Shield of Nebraska, the largest health insurance and health benefits administrator serving Nebraskans. Blue Cross/Blue Shield of Nebraska is a not-for-profit mutual insurance company and an independent licensee of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association. Mr. Martin serves on the board of directors for the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association in Chicago. Mr. Martin also serves on the Policy Committee for the America's Health Insurance Plans (AHIP) organization in Washington, D.C. Mr. Martin is a Board Director for TriWest Healthcare Alliance in Phoenix, Arizona, and Prime Therapeutics, L.L.C. in Eagan, Minnesota. He serves as a Board Director for the United Way of the Midlands; Advisory Board member for the Salvation Army; Board Director for the Durham Western Heritage Museum; Trustee for the Cedars Foundation; Trustee for the Nebraska Council for Economic Education; Councilor for the Knights of AK-SAR-BEN; and Board Director for the Greater Omaha Chamber of Commerce. 
   Dr. Keith Mueller is a Professor and the Director of the Nebraska Center for Rural Health Research at the University of Nebraska Medical Center. Dr. Mueller is also the Director of the Rural Policy Research Institute (RUPRI) Center for Rural Health Policy Analysis. He has served as President of the National Rural Health Association and as a member of the National Advisory Committee on Rural Health and Human Services. Dr. Mueller currently serves on the Advisory Panel on Medicare Education for the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. 
   Dr. Todd Sorensen has served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Regional West Health Services and Regional West Medical Center since September 2000. Dr. Sorensen earned his medical degree from the University of Nebraska College of Medicine Omaha and a master's degree in administrative medicine from the University of Wisconsin at Madison. He completed an internal medicine residency at Denver's Presbyterian Medical Center and is a board-certified internal medicine physician. With two colleagues, Dr. Sorensen founded the first internal medicine group practice in Nebraska west of Kearney in 1976. In addition to his medical practice, Dr. Sorensen later served as medical director for Regional Care, Inc., where he helped develop a provider network and regional health plan. 
   Dr. Virginia Tilden is Dean and Professor at the University of Nebraska Medical Center College of Nursing. Dr. Tilden has held academic appointments at the University of California at San Francisco, the University of San Francisco and the Oregon Health & Science University prior to joining UNMC. In addition, Dr. Tilden is nationally recognized for her long-standing work in improving end-of-life care. She has been principal investigator or co-investigator of over 20 nationally-funded studies addressing the patient and family's experience at end-of-life in a full array of settings where Americans die. 
   Jack Vetter is President of Vetter Health Services, a nursing home management company. Mr. Vetter began his career in long-term care as a nursing home administrator, founding Vetter Health Services with his wife after they acquired their third nursing home. In 2005, Vetter Health Services celebrated their 30th Anniversary. Mr. Vetter now owns and manages 32 long-term care facilities in Nebraska, Iowa, Missouri, Kansas, and Wyoming. He enjoys time with his family and traveling the world for pleasure, missions, and philanthropic work. 
   Dr. Daniel Wilson is Professor and Chairman of Psychiatry and Professor of Anthropology at Creighton University. Under Dr. Wilson's leadership, Creighton Psychiatry has moved to regional leadership and national esteem via important training, research and fiscal collaborations with other universities, hospitals and health systems. Dr. Wilson has guided the department towards providing more clinical services and worked to dramatically increase the research funding available. Dr. Wilson is a key proponent of Nebraska health reform, serving on both Gubernatorial and Legislative panels directing system transformation.
 
 