SEN. HAGEL INTRODUCES CORETTA SCOTT KING AT LAUNCH OF GENERATION ENGAGE
  Sen. Chuck Hagel (R-NE) today delivered an introduction of Coretta Scott King to the Generation Engage program launch event at the Kennedy Center for Performing Arts. Following is the text of Hagel's introduction:  
   "Thank you Adrian for your introduction and for inviting me to the launch of this special and exciting project. Tonight, I have the high honor of introducing one of America's most courageous and dignified leaders. I can think of no person more qualified to speak to the spirit and mission of Generation Engage than Coretta Scott King. 
   Before I introduce Mrs. King, I would like to take a minute to address the importance of young people in our political process. Last November, despite unprecedented get-out-the-vote efforts, only 42 percent of voters between the ages of 18-24 cast ballots in our national election. That's 14 percent below the national average. This should be troubling for all national leaders. No group of Americans is as directly impacted by the decisions government makes everyday than younger Americans. 
   From the struggle for a democratic government in Iraq, to the looming unfunded obligations of our entitlement programs, to the ever-growing national debt, to America's competitive position in the world, the policies decided by today's leaders will affect the future of tomorrow's leaders. The stakes could not be higher. It is okay to be conservative. It is okay to be liberal. It is okay to be unsure. It is not okay to be indifferent. 
   Born out of disappointment with the participation of young voters in the last election, Generation Engage was created to touch young people and engage them in the political process. They did not do this by asking for a government hand-out, but rather by drawing people to their compelling vision in a bipartisan way. As Adrian has explained, they have raised the funds necessary to operate with a three million dollar annual budget. Over the coming months, they will be launching two pilot programs in Virginia and North Carolina to activate young local leaders and give them the resources they need to reach out to their peers. 
   Reaching out to young people who are not in college is one aspect of Generation Engage. It is one thing to go to a college campus and speak to students about their civic responsibilities. It is quite another thing to seek out young people who are working in the shadows trying everyday to make ends meet. They too have their futures at stake. They also need to understand the importance of their voice. They need to know that they live in a country that will listen to their voices if they will make them heard. 
   Coretta Scott King is a living example of the power of an American voice. Mrs. King's story is a uniquely American one. Born and raised in Marion, Alabama, she was valedictorian of Lincoln High School. She received a B.A. in music and education from Antioch College in Yellow Springs, Ohio. It was while she was studying voice and violin at Boston's New England Conservatory of Music that she met a Boston University student named Martin Luther King, Jr. They were married on June 18, 1953 and took up their residence in Montgomery, Alabama. It was there in Montgomery, that they began their important life's work that would spread across our nation and the globe. 
   Coretta Scott King has taken her place in our nation as a voice for nonviolent social change and justice. Through her vision, passion, and commitment to a cause larger than her own self-interest she is an example of what you can become in America. 
   Martin Luther King once said, "Everybody can be great because anybody can serve. You don't have to have a college degree to serve. You don't have to make your subject and verb agree to serve. You only need a heart full of grace. A soul generated by love." 
   As the father of a 14 year-old and a 12 year-old, I thank Generation Engage for their commitment to our next generation. There are enormous challenges ahead for our young Americans, but there are also enormous opportunities. Opportunities that we cannot even imagine. That is the magic of America. 
   Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to now introduce you to one of our nation's most influential and respected leaders, please welcome Coretta Scott King."
 
 