PRESIDENT AWARDS FEDERAL AID TO NEBRASKA COUNTIES SUFFERING DAMAGE FROM STORM
  President George W. Bush issued a major disaster declaration for 11 Nebraska counties today, releasing Federal assistance to help communities respond to the severe storms, tornadoes, and flooding that occurred May 11-12, 2005. Sen. Chuck Hagel (R-NE) sent a letter in May to President Bush supporting Governor David Heineman's disaster declaration request for 11 Nebraska counties.  
   "The storm damage across south central Nebraska is significant. Communities across several counties suffered large losses. President Bush recognizes the need for federal funds to help these counties in Nebraska recover from this disaster as soon as possible," Hagel said. 
   The Public Assistance funds will help state and local governments with 75 percent of the costs for repair or replacement of roads, bridges, public utilities, public facilities, buildings and for labor costs such as debris removal. The 11 counties awarded Public Assistance are: Adams, Buffalo, Fillmore, Frontier, Hall, Hamilton, Howard, Kearney, Merrick, Seward and York. 
   Governor Heineman and Senator Hagel had also supported a request for Individual Assistance funds for the residents of Adams, Hall, Merrick and York counties. The request was denied because the extent of damage to personal property did not meet the national criteria for individual assistance grants and loans. 
   Letter Hagel sent to President Bush in May is attached. 
   May 27, 2005 
   President George W. Bush 
  The White House 
  Washington, DC 20500 
   Dear Mr. President: 
   I am writing to support the request of Nebraska Governor David Heineman for a major disaster declaration for 11 counties in the State of Nebraska. Severe storms, floods and high winds caused extensive damage and property loss in south central Nebraska during the period of May 11, 2005 through May 16, 2005. 
   Governor Heineman is requesting public assistance for the following 11 counties: Adams Hall Merrick Buffalo Hamilton Seward Fillmore Howard York Frontier Kearney. 
   In addition, Governor Heineman is requesting individual assistance for the residents of Adams, Hall, Merrick and York Counties. Many homes had extensive flood damages. 
   I appreciate the personnel, survey teams and assistance provided by the Federal Emergency Management Agency to the Nebraska Emergency Management Agency during this disaster. I am thankful that no severe injuries or loss of life occurred as a result of the storms and subsequent floods. 
   Thank you for your consideration. 
   Sincerely, 
   cc: Governor David Heineman 
   The Honorable Michael D. Brown
 
 