REMEMBERING NEBRASKA'S FALLEN HEROES
  Travis Ford, Ogallala; Nathaniel Caldwell, Omaha; David Moreno, Gering; Christopher Swisher, Lincoln; Daniel Bader, Palmer; James Wolf, Scottsbluff; Dennis Corral, Kearney; Kenneth Hendrickson, Fremont; Cory Mracek, Chadron; David McKeever, Kearney; Noah Boye, Grand Island; Dennis Morgan, Valentine; Matthew Henderson, Lincoln; Kyle Codner, Shelton; Linda Tarango-Griess, Sutton; Jeremy Fischer, Lincoln; Eric Knott, Grand Island; Edward Iwan, Albion; Shane E. Kielion, Omaha; Nicholas Nolte, Falls City - IRAQ. Philip J. Svitak, Fremont - AFGHANISTAN. Blake Kelly, Columbus - BOSNIA.  
   Each year we celebrate Memorial Day as a time to solemnly remember those who have died in service to our country. Nebraska has suffered its share of loss during recent conflicts. Nebraska and America are grateful to the courageous warriors who gave the ultimate sacrifice while supporting our involvement in Operations Enduring Freedom in Afghanistan, Iraqi Freedom in Iraq and peacekeeping efforts in Bosnia since 2001. 
   We remember and celebrate their unselfish commitment to a purpose greater than their own self-interests. It is a high price to pay for the daily freedoms and privileges each of us enjoys. Like all great soldiers before them, they willingly answered the call to duty. 
   There are over 7,700 Nebraskans on active duty, over 8,500 Nebraskans serving in the Reserve Component of our Armed Forces, and over 1,600 Nebraskans in the National Guard and Reserves serving around the world. We honor their service and sacrifice. But it is the brave warriors who do not return home that we remember and celebrate on Memorial Day. 
   Memorial Day brings families and communities together in a demonstration of solidarity and remembrance to reflect upon the lives of fallen service members. The loss of these brave Nebraskans is fresh in our memories. It is a mistake to assume that courage and sacrifice cannot be forgotten, or that the lessons of war cannot be lost to history. To remember and honor those who have fallen today assures that America will not forget them tomorrow. 
   For their service, bravery and sacrifice, I ask Nebraskans to join me in honoring all of Nebraska's fallen heroes and their families from all wars this Memorial Day, and thank all those who have served their country in uniform.
 
 