REMEMBERING SOLDIERS AND THEIR FAMILIES
 Memorial Day is a time for solemn remembrance and reflection. We remember the brave men and women who gave their lives in defense of our nation. At cemeteries and memorials across America, in tributes both public and private, we gather to honor those who died in service to our country. On May 12, members of the Sergeant John Rice family of Winnebago, Nebraska paid final tribute to his wife, Evelyn, who was buried at Arlington National Cemetery next to her husband. The history of both Sergeant John and Evelyn Rice serves as an important reminder of the sacrifices soldiers and their families make in defense of freedom. 
   Sergeant Rice, a Winnebago Native American, was born on Nebraska's Winnebago reservation in 1914. After high school, he began looking for an opportunity outside of reservation life. He found that opportunity by serving in the U.S. Army during World War II. Rice received a Purple Heart after being wounded and was discharged from the Army in 1945. Rice reenlisted in the Army in 1946, and among the many duties Rice performed were escorting the bodies of war casualties being brought back to the U.S. to be buried.  
   Rice's service again brought him into battle in 1950 during the Korean War, where he was killed in combat early in the conflict. It wasn't until almost a year later that his body was finally returned home to Winnebago. Evelyn arranged for the burial to be at Memorial Park Cemetery in Sioux City, Iowa because it was close to the family and near Winnebago. 
   Sergeant Rice's funeral proceeded as planned on August 28, 1951. It wasn't until after Evelyn and the family left the funeral service that cemetery personnel discovered that Rice was Native American. Evelyn was told that Sergeant Rice's burial would not be completed due to a cemetery rule that only Caucasians could be buried there. In an effort to try and solve the situation, the cemetery personnel proposed to Evelyn that she could sign a document stating that Rice was Caucasian and they would finish the burial. Evelyn rejected that offer and later stated that, "When these men are in the army, they are all equal and the same. I certainly thought they would be the same after death..." 
   Two military officers who were present at the funeral alerted army officials in Washington of the funeral's disruption. The day after Rice's funeral, news of what happened reached President Harry S. Truman, and he offered Evelyn a space for her husband to be buried at Arlington National Cemetery. Evelyn accepted the President's offer and arrangements were made a few days later for a ceremony to take place at Arlington National Cemetery with full military honors. Sergeant Rice is believed to be the first Native American soldier to be buried in Arlington National Cemetery. 
   Evelyn Rice passed away last year at the age of 83 and was buried earlier this month next to her husband at Arlington National Cemetery. Her courage in refusing to accept anything less than respect and honor for her husband's service and sacrifice is an example all Nebraskans can be proud of. Evelyn Rice embodied the best of America's spirit by standing up to injustice during a very difficult time for her and her family, community and country. 
   We must be vigilant in our efforts to remember the sacrifices of those we honor on Memorial Day. I authored a Senate Resolution, which is now law, to observe a National Moment of Remembrance at 3:00 p.m local time each Memorial Day. Reserving this moment to reflect on Memorial Day is one way to honor those who died in service to our country. I ask everyone to join me this Memorial Day in honoring America's fallen heroes and their families, like Sergeant John and Evelyn Rice, and thank all those who have served their country in uniform.
 
 