SEN. HAGEL SENDS LETTER TO SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE JOHANNS ABOUT GRAIN INSPECTION, PACKERS AND STOCKYARDS ADMINISTRATION BLOCKING INVESTIGATIONS
  Sen. Chuck Hagel (R-NE) sent a letter today to Secretary of Agriculture Mike Johanns regarding reports that U.S. Department of Agriculture's (USDA) Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration (GIPSA) blocked investigations of the meat packing industry. In the letter, Hagel urged Johanns to oversee the adoption of recommendations made by USDA's Office of the Inspector General (OIG) to address problems that exist with GIPSA's implementation of the Packers and Stockyards Act of 1921.  
   "This is an issue of great importance to Nebraska and its livestock industry. Anti-competitive business practices in the meat packing industry have a negative effect on an open and fair marketplace...It is encouraging that USDA plans to adopt the recommendations made in the Inspector General's report. I urge you to carefully oversee the full adoption and implementation of these recommendations," Hagel said in the letter. 
   OIG released a report last week which stated that officials at GIPSA blocked investigations of livestock packing companies by stopping complaints from being forwarded or prosecuted by the Department of Justice. 
   Attached is the letter sent to Johanns. 
   January 25, 2006 
   The Honorable Michael O. Johanns 
   Secretary 
   United States Department of Agriculture 
   1400 Independence Avenue, SW 
   Washington, D.C. 20250 
   Dear Mike: 
   I write regarding a report released last week by the United States Department of Agriculture's (USDA) Office of the Inspector General (OIG) which states that officials at the Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration (GIPSA) blocked investigations of livestock packing companies by stopping complaints from being forwarded or prosecuted by the Department of Justice. 
   As you know, this is an issue of great importance to Nebraska and its livestock industry. Anti-competitive business practices in the meat packing industry have a negative effect on an open and fair marketplace. I commend you for pledging to address all problems that exist with GIPSA's implementation of the Packers and Stockyards Act of 1921. 
   It is encouraging that USDA plans to adopt the recommendations made in the Inspector General's report. I urge you to carefully oversee the full adoption and implementation of these recommendations. 
   Thank you for your attention to this matter. 
   Sincerely, 
   Chuck Hagel
 
 