SENS. HAGEL, HARKIN REINTRODUCE BILL TO FUND FEDERAL COMMITMENT TO INDIVIDUALS WITH DISABILITIES EDUCATION ACT
  Sens. Chuck Hagel (R-NE) and Tom Harkin (D-IA) reintroduced legislation today to meet the federal government's commitment to fund 40 percent of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA). Hagel and Harkin first introduced this legislation in 2001. Cosponsors of the Hagel-Harkin bill include Sens. Jeffords (I-VT), Roberts (R-KS), Warner (R-VA), Chafee (R-RI), Snowe (R-ME), Collins (R-ME), Coleman (R-MN), Schumer (D-NY), Lieberman (D-CT), Dayton (D-MN), Kerry (D-MA), Kennedy (D-MA), Mikulski (D-MD), Dodd (D-CT), Reed (D-RI), Murray (D-WA), Bingaman (D-NM), and Johnson (D-SD).  
   "When the federal government created IDEA it committed to funding 40 percent of the costs. For over 30 years, it has failed to meet its obligation and pushed the costs down to states and local governments. This is wrong and it takes resources away from education needs in each state. While we have made progress in increasing IDEA funding over the last 10 years, the federal government is still not close to meeting its commitment. This bipartisan legislation takes a responsible approach to fixing this problem and freeing up critical education funds in states like Nebraska," Hagel said. 
   IDEA guarantees a free and appropriate public education to students with special needs. When Congress passed IDEA in 1975 it pledged to provide states and local school districts with 40 percent of the funding needed to support this mandate. However, despite large increases in funding over the last 10 years (from $2.3 billion in Fiscal Year 1996 to $10.7 billion in Fiscal Year 2006), federal funds for IDEA have not exceeded 19 percent. This leaves state governments and local school districts to pick up the tab for this federally mandated program, taking away funds for other local education needs. 
   The Hagel-Harkin bill would fully-fund IDEA in five years through mandatory annual phased-in spending increases, until federal funding reaches $26.1 billion in Fiscal Year 2011. The bill would free up local and state funds that had previously been used to meet IDEA requirements for other important education priorities. Therefore, as the federal IDEA share grows, local school districts will have increased flexibility for all their education programs. 
   The Hagel-Harkin bill is supported by the following groups: American Association of School Administrators; American Association of University Women; American Counseling Association; American Art Therapy Association; American Dance Therapy Association; American Federation of Teachers; American Psychological Association; American Speech-Language-Hearing Association; Alexander Graham Bell Association for the Deaf and Hard of Hearing; Association for Career and Technical Education; Association of Educational Service Agencies; Association of School Business Officials International; American School Counselor Association; Autism Society of America; CHADD (Children and Adults with Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder); Council for Children with Behavioral Disorders; Council for Exceptional Children; Council for Learning Disabilities; Council of Chief State School Officers; Council of Great City Schools; Council of Parent Attorneys & Advocates; Easter Seals; International Reading Association; Learning Disabilities Association of America; National Association of Black School Educators; National Association of County Behavioral Health and Developmental Disability Directors; National Association of Elementary School Principals; National Association of Federally Impacted Schools; National Association of School Psychologists; National Association of Secondary School Principals; National Association of Social Workers; National Association of State Boards of Educators; National Association of State Directors of Special Education; National Association of State Mental Health Program Directors; National Center for Learning Disabilities; National Education Association; National League of Cities; National Mental Health Association; National PTA; National Rural Education Advocacy Coalition; National Rural Education Association; National School Boards Association; People for the American Way; School Social Work Association of America; The Arc of the U.S.; Tourette Syndrome Association and United Cerebral Palsy.
 
 