SEN. HAGEL ANNOUNCES STAFF CHANGES
  U.S. Senator Chuck Hagel announced today that Lou Ann Linehan will be stepping down as his Chief-of-Staff. Communications Director Mike Buttry will become the new Chief-of-Staff. Tom Janssen will continue to serve as Senator Hagel's Deputy Chief-of-Staff and be responsible for all of Hagel's Nebraska operations. Rexon Ryu, Senator Hagel's Senior Foreign Policy Advisor, will be promoted to Deputy Chief-of-Staff and Senior Foreign Policy Advisor.  
   Linehan, a native of Crab Orchard, Nebraska, served as Hagel's Campaign Manager in his first race for Senate beginning in 1995. She became his Chief-of-Staff following Hagel's election to the Senate in 1996. In 2001, Linehan was selected by Secretary of State Colin Powell to serve as Deputy Assistant Secretary for Legislative Affairs. In 2003, Linehan returned to again serve as Hagel's Chief-of-Staff. While Linehan will remain active in Hagel's circle, she is currently on unpaid leave. 
   "Chuck Hagel is the most capable, intelligent, earnest person I have ever known. He is a patriot in every sense of the word. Aside from my family, the work I have done for Senator Hagel is my greatest source of pride. I do not know what I will do next, but it will be extremely difficult to find anything more rewarding. Sen. Hagel has built an outstanding team of Senate staff who have committed to stay through the end of his term," Linehan said. 
   "Lou Ann Linehan represents the best of Nebraska; hard work, honesty, and love of country," Hagel said. "She has been a consistent voice of wise counsel to me, a mentor to countless staff members and a devoted public servant. Nebraska has been extremely well served by this exceptional Nebraskan. Lou Ann will always be a trusted friend and advisor." 
   Buttry, a graduate of Creighton University and Papillion-LaVista High School, began working with Hagel in the spring of 2000. He has served as Press Assistant, Press Secretary and Communications Director. 
   "Anyone who has worked with Senator Hagel and Lou Ann understands the seriousness with which they take the responsibilities of a U.S. Senator. Senator Hagel's staff will continue to work as hard for the people of Nebraska over the next eleven months as they have over the last eleven years. We won't let the Senator or Lou Ann down," Buttry said. 
   "Mike, Tom and Rexon make up an experienced team with judgment and a deep understanding of Nebraska and the world. These are important times and my staff and I will continue to do all we can to help influence the direction of our country in a very uncertain world," Hagel concluded.
 
 