SEN. HAGEL RE-INTRODUCES COMPREHENSIVE IMMIGRATION REFORM LEGISLATION
  Sen. Chuck Hagel (R-NE) introduced legislation today that provides a comprehensive approach to immigration reform. Hagel's comprehensive immigration reform package consists of four bills that deal with national security; employment security; America's workforce; and bringing accountability to those living here illegally. This package is an enhanced version of immigration reform legislation Hagel introduced in 2004 with former Senate Minority Leader Tom Daschle. 
   "Immigration reform is an urgent national security priority. We cannot continue to defer making tough choices about our nation's immigration policy. It is not in our interest to have 8-12 million people undocumented and unaccounted for in our country. The American people won't accept immigration reform until they are convinced we are controlling our borders. Congress must reform the patchwork of immigration laws that have created an underground, black market labor force," Hagel said.  
   The new fines and fees created by this legislation will fund the new and expanded programs created in it. Fines assessed by this legislation could total as much as $12 billion. The legislation has not yet been scored by the Congressional Budget Office. 
   In March, Hagel visited the Mariposa Nogales Port of Entry in Arizona at the U.S.-Mexico border to observe border patrol operations with U.S. Customs and Border Protection agents. Last week, Hagel met with Nebraska state and local law enforcement officials, community leaders and immigrant advocates to discuss his immigration reform legislation. 
   Attached are fact sheets detailing the legislation. 
   Senator Chuck Hagel (R-NE) 
   Comprehensive Immigration Reform 
   This comprehensive immigration reform package will strengthen national security, employment security, America's workforce, and bring accountability to those living in America illegally: 
   1) National Security: This legislation will strengthen national security and United States borders. 
   Border Security - To assist law enforcement in their efforts to secure our borders, this legislation would increase the number of Customs and Border Protection officers; require DHS to increase use of updated technology at the border; increase criminal penalties for alien smuggling, document fraud, gang violence, and drug trafficking at the border; continue funding through 2010 to reimburse states for the costs of detaining undocumented aliens; and give DHS additional tools to detain and deport undocumented aliens. 
   2) Employment Security: require employers to verify the employment eligibility of their employees. 
   Employment Verification - To assist all employers in their effort to hire legal workers, this legislation would establish a mandatory electronic worker verification system. The system would be managed by DHS in conjunction with the Social Security Administration. The system will allow employers to immediately verify whether an individual is authorized to work in the U.S. This system is already being used by the federal government and by certain employers across the country, including some in Nebraska. The system will be phased-in over a 5 year period, starting with large employers. The legislation includes protections to ensure that the system will not result in hiring discrimination based on race or national origin, nor will it interfere with the regular hiring process. Employers who use the system will receive a "safe-harbor" from prosecution for hiring unauthorized workers. 
   3) Workforce: This legislation will amend the Immigration and Nationality Act to address the demand for foreign workers. 
   Willing Workers - To provide foreign workers for low-skilled jobs that would otherwise go unfilled, this legislation would admit a limited number of workers annually through a new temporary worker program. Employers seeking to hire foreign workers through this program must first demonstrate that no qualified U.S. worker exists and that they will provide the same wage levels and working conditions as U.S. workers. Workers will be admitted for a limited period of time and will be allowed to change employers. Visas are good for 2 years and can be renewed. Qualified workers and their families would be provided an opportunity to adjust their immigration status over time. 
   High-Tech Workers - To address the need for high-tech workers and to reduce the existing worker visa backlog, this legislation would allow foreign students who have earned an advanced degree in science, technology, engineering or math from U.S. universities to receive a H-1B work visa without leaving the country and without regard to the annual cap of 65,000. In addition, high-tech workers who have worked in the U.S. for three years may be allowed to adjust to permanent resident status without regard to the annual cap of 140,000. The spouses and children of immigrant workers would also be allowed to adjust status without regard to this cap. 
   Student Workers - To encourage more foreign students to study in the U.S., this legislation would give full-time foreign college and graduate students the opportunity to work part-time while studying at U.S. universities. 
   4) Accountability: This legislation will amend the Immigration and Nationality Act in order to encourage those in the U.S. illegally to apply for legal status. 
   Earned Adjustment Program for Long-Term Undocumented Immigrants - This legislation would provide an opportunity for illegal aliens and their families to become invested stakeholders in the country if they can demonstrate that they have met all of the following requirements: 
   Passed national security and criminal background checks; 
   Resided in the U.S. for at least 5 years preceding the date of introduction; 
   Worked a minimum of 3 years in the U.S. preceding the date of introduction, and 6 years after introduction; 
   Paid all federal and state taxes; 
   Registered for Military Selective Service; 
   Demonstrated knowledge of English language and American civics requirements; 
   Paid a $2,000 fine, in addition to required application fees. Fines assessed from this program could total as much as $12 billion. 
   Earned Adjustment Program for Short-Term Undocumented Immigrants - Undocumented immigrants who cannot meet the work or residence requirements (2. and 3. above) will register with DHS and will be allowed to apply for a visa. However, these undocumented immigrants must return to their home country to obtain the visa and be readmitted through the legal process. These undocumented immigrants will have three years to complete the application process and will be authorized to work. 
   Backlog Reduction - This section of the bill would exempt certain individuals (living outside the U.S.) from existing caps on family-based immigrant visas. This section was originally included in the 2004 Hagel/Daschle Immigration Reform bill. 
   Cost: 
   The new fines and fees created by this legislation will fund the new and expanded programs created in it. Fines assessed by this legislation could total as much as $12 billion. A majority of the funds will come from the $2000 fine illegal aliens would pay under the Earned Adjustment Program. The legislation has not yet been scored by the Congressional Budget Office. 
   Strengthening America's Security Act of 2005 
   The bill creates a new Assistant Attorney General for Immigration Enforcement and increases the number of prosecutors, immigration judges, and federal pubic defenders to expedite immigration related litigation. 
   The bill requires the Customs and Border Protection to work with the Army Corp of Engineers determine the best way to close tunnels under the border and build needed fences. 
   The bill expands the use of Expedited Removal (currently only allowed at Ports of Entry) so that aliens captured near the border can be quickly returned - minimizing detention or lengthy hearing processes. 
   The bill increases criminal penalties for: 
   alien smuggling 
   document fraud 
   misuse of Social Security numbers 
   and drug trafficking offenses committed by illegal aliens 
   The bill makes any alien who is a member of a criminal street gang deportable, even if he has not been convicted of a crime. 
   The bill requires a $5,000 bond for release of undocumented aliens from "non-contiguous countries" who are captured near the border. 
   The bill authorizes construction of additional detention facilities for undocumented aliens. 
   The bill re-authorizes the State Criminal Alien Assistance Program for reimbursing states for their expenses in dealing with undocumented aliens. 
   The bill increases the number of Customs and Border Protection officers by 1,250 over 5 years. 
   The bill authorizes funds to pay for the 2,000 border patrol agents Congress added in last year's Intelligence Reform bill. 
   The bill requires the Department of Homeland Security to acquire and use technology to gain operational control of the border, like unmanned aerial vehicles, cameras and sensors. 
   The bill provides for construction of new infrastructure along the border, like roads, barriers, and border patrol facilities. 
   The bill requires Customs and Border Protection officers to under go training to detect fraudulent documents and it gives them access to the federal Forensic Document Laboratory. 
   The bill requires the Department of Homeland Security to report Congress about which documents need to be machine-readable and tamper-resistant. 
   The bill expressly authorizes the Department of Homeland Security to collect biometric data from entering aliens and makes an alien's refusal to provide biometric data a ground of inadmissibility. 
   The bill requires the Customs and Border Protection to work with the Army Corp of Engineers to determine the best way to close tunnels under the border and build needed fences. 
   The bill automatically cancels visas for aliens who violate the terms of their admission into the U.S. 
   The bill sets up a $10 million dollar grant program for Indian Tribes along the border to help secure those areas. 
   The bill requires the Department of Homeland Security to automate storage of alien records in electronic format. 
   The Employment Verification Act of 2005 
   This bill establishes a nation-wide electronic employer enforcement verification system. This system will allow employers to immediately verify with the Department of Homeland Security, in cooperation with the Social Security Administration, that an individual is authorized to work in the United States. 
   The system would be managed by DHS in conjunction with the Social Security Administration. 
   The system will allow all employers to immediately verify whether an individual is authorized to work in the U.S. 
   The system will be phased-in over a 5 year period, starting with large employers. The legislation includes protections to ensure that the system will not result in hiring discrimination based on race or national origin, nor will it interfere with the regular hiring process. 
   Employers who use the system will receive a "safe-harbor" from prosecution for hiring unauthorized workers. 
   The bill reduces the number of documents that can be used to verify employment authorization. 
   The bill increases penalties for unauthorized employment and claims of false citizenship. 
   Strengthening America's Workforce Act of 2005 
   This bill addresses the demand for both low-skilled and high-skilled foreign workers. It includes a provision to allow full-time foreign students to work part-time while studying in the United States. 
   Title 1 - Temporary/Low-Skilled Workers: 
   This section of the bill includes the temporary worker program originally created in Hagel/Daschle in 2004. The new program adds 250,000 new temporary worker visas annually. The visas are good for 2 years, with a 2 year extension. Workers are allowed to apply for permanent residence in the U.S. over time. The bill increases seasonal worker visas from 66,000 to 100,000 and it includes provisions to ensure American workers are offered jobs first. American wages and benefits are also protected in the bill. 
   Title 2 - High-Tech/High-Skilled Workers: 
   This title of the bill addresses the need for high-tech workers and reduces the existing worker visa backlog. Foreign students who have earned an advanced degree in science, technology, engineering or math from U.S. universities would be able to receive a H-1B work visa without leaving the country and without regard to the annual cap of 65,000. In addition, high-tech workers who have worked in the U.S. for three years may be allowed to adjust to permanent resident status without regard to the annual cap of 140,000. The spouses and children of immigrant workers would also be allowed to adjust status without regard to this cap. 
   Title 3 - Foreign Student Work Authorization: 
   To encourage more foreign students to study in the U.S., this section of the bill would give full-time foreign college and graduate students the opportunity to work part-time while studying at U.S. universities. Allowing foreign students to work will make the U.S. foreign student program more competitive with other nations that give these students this opportunity. 
   Immigrant Accountability Act of 2005 
   This bill is an accountable, realistic way to deal with individuals and their families living in the U.S. illegally. It also reduces the backlog of individuals waiting to come into the U.S. legally. 
   Title 1 - Earned Adjustment Program: 
   This section of the bill allows undocumented aliens who are present on the date of introduction of the bill to apply for earned adjustment if they have been present in the U.S. for at least 5 years and have worked 3 of those 5 years. They must meet all existing requirements in immigration law and satisfy a list of additional requirements, including: 
   Passed national security and criminal background checks; 
   Resided in the U.S. for at least 5 years preceding the date of introduction; 
   Worked a minimum of 3 years in the U.S. preceding the date of introduction, and 6 years after introduction; 
   Paid all federal and state taxes; 
   Registered for Military Selective Service; 
   Demonstrated knowledge of English language and American civics requirements; 
   Paid a $2,000 fine, in addition to required application fees. Fines assessed from this program could total as much as $12 billion. 
   To prevent "line-jumping," aliens may not be granted "permanent" status for 8 years or until the existing backlog is resolved. 
   Aliens who cannot prove the 5 year residency or 3 year work requirements for earned adjustment are given "deferred departure status." This status authorizes them to stay and work in the U.S. for 3 years, but requires them to return home to apply for a visa and then be re-admitted through the regular process. The purpose of this provision is to distinguish between immigrants who have long-term ties to the U.S. and those who are recent arrivals. 
   Title 2 - Family Backlog Reduction: 
   To reduce the existing backlog of visa applications from family members of U.S. citizens and legal residents, this legislation would exempt immediate family members from existing caps on family-based immigrant visas. (The current cap is 480,000 per year, which is spread out among family-member categories by formula.) This exemption only applies to the spouses, children, and parents of U.S. citizens, and the spouses and children of legal residents.
 
 