PRESIDENT AWARDS FEDERAL AID TO NEBRASKA COUNTIES SUFFERING DAMAGE FROM STORM
  President George W. Bush issued a major disaster declaration for 29 Nebraska counties today, releasing federal assistance to help communities respond to the severe winter storm that occurred on November 27 and 28, 2005.  
   U.S. Senator Chuck Hagel (R-NE) sent a letter in December to President Bush supporting Governor David Heineman's request for a joint public damage assessment between the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and Nebraska state and local officials. The letter also requested help for the affected communities to recover from the storm. The disaster declaration will provide assistance to State and local governments for the repair or replacement of disaster-damaged public facilities. 
   "This is important news for the Nebraska communities that were hit by last November's severe winter storm and that suffered large losses. President Bush recognizes the need for federal funds to help these counties in Nebraska recover from this disaster as soon as possible," Hagel said. 
   The Public Assistance funds will help state and local governments with 75 percent of the costs for repair or replacement of roads, bridges, public utilities, public facilities, buildings and for labor costs such as debris removal. The 29 counties awarded Public Assistance are: Antelope, Boone, Boyd, Custer, Dawson, Dundy, Frontier, Furnas, Garfield, Gosper, Greeley, Hayes, Holt, Kearney, Knox, Lincoln, Logan, Loup, Madison, McPherson, Nance, Perkins, Phelps, Pierce, Red Willow, Rock, Valley, Wayne, and Wheeler Counties. 
   Letter Hagel sent to President Bush in December is attached. 
   December 2, 2005 
   The Honorable George W. Bush 
   The President 
   The White House 
   Washington, DC 20500 
   Dear Mr. President: 
   I write in support of Nebraska Governor Dave Heineman's request for a joint public damage assessment between the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and state and local officials in Nebraska. The severe winter storms that struck the state on November 27 and 28 have caused significant damage throughout 15 public power districts in Nebraska. Additionally, at least 30 Nebraska counties have reported damage to public infrastructure. 
   Any assistance that could be approved by FEMA to assess the damage that has occurred and help the affected communities recover from these storms would be appreciated. 
   Thank you for your consideration. 
   Sincerely, 
   Chuck Hagel 
   CC: Governor Dave Heineman 
   The Honorable R. David Paulison
 
 