SENS. HAGEL, CLINTON RE-INTRODUCE LUNG CANCER RESOLUTION
  Sen. Chuck Hagel (R-NE) and Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton (D-NY) re-introduced a resolution today calling on the President to declare lung cancer a national public health priority by increasing funding for lung cancer research, developing early detection lung cancer screening programs and appointing an advisory committee to oversee and coordinate efforts to reduce lung cancer mortality rates. Hagel and Clinton introduced a similar resolution in the 109th Congress.  
   "Lung cancer is the most lethal form of cancer for men and women in the United States. The American Cancer Society estimates that over 900 Nebraskans will die of lung cancer in 2007. We have made great advancements in prostate and breast cancer survival rates; we must commit ourselves to making the same progress in lung cancer survival rates," Hagel said. 
   Nebraska last year was the first state in the nation to initiate a state-wide screening program for lung cancer through the Nebraska Early Detection and Information Technology [NEED-IT] program at the University of Nebraska Medical Center (UNMC). 
   "Lung cancer touches millions of families across America and more than 12,000 new cases are diagnosed in New York State every year. We must do our part to increase awareness of this disease and support ongoing early detection and treatment research," Senator Clinton said. 
   The Hagel-Clinton legislation lays out a multi-agency action blueprint for reducing lung cancer's high mortality rate by at least 50 percent by 2015. Both senators' emphasized the need for a carefully coordinated approach among the federal agencies, including the Department of Health and Human Services as well as the Department of Veterans Affairs, in focusing on earlier detection and more effective treatments. 
   "Research in the prevention, early detection, and treatment of lung cancer is critically important in order to improve the survival from lung cancer. The Lung Cancer Resolution introduced today will help to make lung cancer research a priority and provide hope for patients who develop this disease," said Ken Cowan, M.D., Ph.D., director of the UNMC Eppley Cancer Center.
 
 