SEN. HAGEL INTRODUCES BILL TO ELIMINATE G.I. BILL FEE FOR THOSE SERVING IN WARTIME
  Sen. Chuck Hagel (R-NE) introduced legislation today that would eliminate the current G.I. Bill's $1,200 enrollment fee for active duty members of the military. Below is an excerpt from Hagel's floor statement:  
   "We are now in a time of war and the demands on our service members and their families have been transformed and increased. To that end, changes must be made to the G.I. Bill to ensure that it continues to provide realistic and relevant educational opportunities to those who are defending our country," Hagel said in a statement for the record. 
   The G.I. Enhancement Act of 2004 covers any member of the United States military, including Reserve and National Guard members, serving on active duty during the period after President Bush's November 2001 Executive Order that placed the military on a wartime footing. This legislation would: 
   * Waive the G.I. Bill enrollment fee until President Bush's November 2001 Executive Order is rescinded; 
  * Allow all servicemen and women who have served or are serving on active duty since November 2001 to opt into the G.I. Bill with no penalty or enrollment fee; and 
  * Reimburse those servicemen and women who paid the $1,200 enrollment fee. 
   "This is an issue of fundamental fairness. The men and women serving our country in wartime should not have to choose between the long-term benefits of the G.I. Bill and the short-term demands of their paycheck. The G.I. Bill is one of the great legacies of military service to our country. Men and women sacrificing for their country in a time of war need to be assured that access to higher education is in their future. Congress must do all it can to ensure that education options for our veterans are accessible and real," Hagel concluded. 
   For more information on the Montgomery G.I. Bill go to www.gibill.va.gov 
   Entire Hagel Floor Statement is Attached 
   FLOOR STATEMENT BY SENATOR CHUCK HAGEL 
  "The GI Bill Enhancement Act of 2004" 
   Mr. Hagel. Mr. President. I rise today to introduce the "G.I. Bill Enhancement Act of 2004." This legislation recognizes the extraordinary service and sacrifice of the members of our Armed Forces serving in the war on terrorism. It eliminates the current G.I. Bill's $1200 enrollment fee for all those who have served in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
   2004 marks the 60th Anniversary of the Servicemen's Readjustment Act of 1944, best known as the "G.I. Bill." This bill has long been recognized as one of the most important Congressional acts of post World War II America. The G.I. Bill ensured that all who served their nation would not be penalized as a result of their time away from their careers and communities in service to their country. The G.I. Bill helped members of our "greatest generation" upon their return home by providing them with the educational tools necessary to pursue the opportunities that they helped preserve for all Americans. 
   Over the last 60 years, the federal government has invested billions of dollars in education benefits for our nation's veterans. Over 19 million men and women have benefitted from the G.I. Bill, resulting in a workforce that transformed American society. The bill's far-reaching impact can be seen here today, as some Members of Congress, including this Senator, have prospered as a result of the benefits of the G.I. Bill. 
   The current G.I. Bill is tailored to serve members of our military in a time of peace. Upon enlistment, recruits are given the option of enrolling in the G.I. Bill. If they choose to participate, they are charged a $1200 enrollment fee which is deducted from their monthly pay over 12 months. However, we are now in a time of war and the demands on our service members and their families have been transformed and increased. To that end, changes must be made to the G.I. Bill to ensure that it continues to provide realistic and relevant educational opportunities to those who are defending our country. 
   The G.I. Bill Enhancement Act of 2004 covers any member of the United States military, including Reserve and National Guard members, serving on active duty during the period after President Bush's November 16, 2001 Executive Order that placed the military on a wartime footing. This legislation would: 
   * Waive the G.I. Bill enrollment fee until President Bush's November 2001 Executive Order is rescinded; 
  * Allow all servicemen and women, including those who served in Iraq and Afghanistan, to opt into the G.I. Bill with no penalty or enrollment fee; and 
  * Reimburse those servicemen and women who paid the $1,200 enrollment fee after the November 2001 Executive Order. 
   This is an issue of fundamental fairness. The men and women serving our country in wartime should not have to choose between the long-term benefits of the G.I. Bill and the short-term demands on their paycheck. Men and women sacrificing for their country in a time of war need to be assured that access to higher education is in their future. Congress must ensure that education options for our veterans are real. 
   Every American should be proud of how we have responded to the challenges of terrorism following September 11, 2001. We owe much to the men and women who have fought professionally and bravely in Afghanistan and Iraq. This legislation recognizes these sacrifices. I hope that my Senate colleagues will give serious consideration to this legislation. 
   Thank you.
 
 