SEN. HAGEL INTRODUCES HEALTH CARE LEGISLATION
  U.S. Senator Chuck Hagel (R-NE) today introduced the Federal Health Care Board Act of 2007. This legislation would create an independent federal government agency, modeled after the Federal Reserve Board, to define and guide the transformation of the nation's health care system.  
   "No issue is more important to the future of America than health care. It touches the lives of every person. America's competitive position in the world will be directly linked to our nation's capacity to increase access to sustainable, affordable and quality health care for all Americans. It will impact every sector of our economy and consume an increasingly large part of our federal budget," Hagel said. 
   "The Federal Health Care Board Act of 2007 will create the needed framework and mechanisms to address the looming health care problems facing our nation. Congress can no longer defer the tough decisions necessary to reform our current health care system," Hagel concluded. 
   The Federal Health Care Board (FHCB) would be an independent federal government agency and will establish, monitor, amend and enforce the six tenants outlined below: 
   1. Establish a national standard for a basic health plan. The standard would include a basic minimum policy and set the regional cost for this policy. 
   2. Establish national protocol and standards for secure and universal individual Electronic Medical Records. 
   3. Implement a structure for the disclosure of pricing from providers and payers through an information clearinghouse. 
   4. Establish a national standard for public health services (safety net providers). 
   5. Create Loan Forgiveness and Scholarship Programs for providers in underserved areas. 
   6. Establish model Dispute Resolution for malpractice claims.
   In 2006, Hagel empanelled a Health Care Commission, comprised of 15 health care professionals from across the state of Nebraska and the country. The Commission's mandate was to review the current state of health care in the United States and present recommendations for developing an accessible and sustainable system for the 21st century. The Commission worked with many experts and organizations in the health care field for one year to assemble their Final Report. This legislation is a result of the recommendations of the Commission.
 
 