SEN. HAGEL URGES SENATORS TO INCLUDE NEW HOMESTEAD ACT PROVISIONS IN BILL
  Sen. Chuck Hagel (R-NE) along with nine other Senators sent a letter to Senate Finance Committee Chairman Grassley (R-IA) and Ranking Member Baucus (D-MT) urging the Senators to keep provisions for the New Homestead Act in the Foreign Sales Corporation/Extraterritorial Income Exclusion Bill (FSC-ETI). Grassley and Baucus will be meeting with House members to work out differences between the House and Senate versions of the FSC-ETI bill. Currently the bill includes two New Homestead Act provisions: rural investment tax credits and a rural small business investment credit.  
   "One of the most serious threats to America's Heartland is the loss of its people. One-third of the nation's rural counties have seen at least 10% of their population depart for other places - literally decimated by the out-migration of people and jobs over the past twenty years. It is a constant struggle for those who remain just to keep their businesses and communities alive. The New Homestead Act provides new opportunities through the use of tax and other financial awards to fight against rural out-migration," the Senators said in the letter. 
   The rural investment tax credits encourage businesses to locate or expand in a high out-migration rural counties by offsetting the cost of newly constructed or existing buildings. Rural small business investment credits help offset the cost of new funding needed for business expansion, including capital costs, plant and equipment, inventory expenses and wages for qualifying small businesses. 
   Attached is a copy of the letter sent to Senator Grassley and Baucus. 
   The Honorable Charles Grassley 
  Chairman 
  Senate Finance Committee 
  Senate Dirksen Building, Room 219 
  Washington, D.C. 20510 
   The Honorable Max Baucus
  Ranking Democrat
  Senate Finance Committee
  Senate Dirksen Building, Room 219
  Washington, D.C. 20510
   Dear Chairman Grassley and Senator Baucus: 
   When you meet with House conferees to work out the differences between the House and Senate versions of the Foreign Sales Corporation/Extraterritorial Income Exclusion Act (FSC-ETI) repeal legislation, H.R. 4520 and S. 1637, respectively, we urge you to fight to retain two provisions in the Senate-passed version of this legislation that are important to the future of rural America. 
   As you know, one of the most serious threats to America's Heartland is the loss of its people. One-third of the nation's rural counties have seen at least 10% of their population depart for other places - literally decimated by the out-migration of people and jobs over the past twenty years. It is a constant struggle for those who remain just to keep their businesses and communities alive. 
   We have worked for several years on legislation we call the New Homestead Act that provides new opportunities through the use of tax and other financial rewards to fight against rural out-migration. The New Homestead Act has garnered 17 bipartisan cosponsors in the U.S. Senate. It also has been endorsed by many important organizations, including the National Association of Counties, the National Telecommunications Cooperative Association, National Council of Farmer Cooperatives and the National Rural Electric Cooperative Association, the National Association of Realtors, the National Farmers Union, the American Bankers Association, the Independent Community Bankers of America, the Credit Union National Association, the Center for Rural Affairs and many others. 
   With your help, during its debate on the JOBS Act, S. 1637, the Senate agreed to a Managers Amendment that included two key measures from the New Homestead Act. Virtually identical provisions were also included in the Heartland Investment and Rural Employment Act that you introduced just prior to the August recess. 
   First, Section 633 of S. 1637 provides for rural investment tax credits. These tax credits would encourage businesses that move to or expand in a high out-migration rural county by offsetting the cost of newly constructed or existing buildings. Second, Section 634 of S. 1637 provides for rural small business investment credits. Under this provision, a state may choose to apply a portion of its rural investment tax credit allocation for qualifying start-up or expanding small businesses with five or fewer employees. In this case, the credits would help offset the cost of new funding needed for business expansion, including capital costs, plant and equipment, inventory expenses and wages. 
   Enacting these two tax incentive provisions into law would be an important step in the effort to reverse the economic devastation caused by chronic rural out-migration. 
   We know that you agree that our rural areas are worth fighting for. We strongly believe that our rural areas deserve the same opportunity to survive that the federal government once afforded to urban areas when they were losing people and jobs. 
   Having said this, the New Homestead Act's business related tax incentives that were added to Senate's FSC-ETI bill would provide high out-migration rural communities a real opportunity to grow and prosper once again. We look forward to working with you and others to ensure that these provisions are included in the final version of the FSC-ETI bill or any other tax legislation sent to the President for his signature this fall.
 
 