SEN. HAGEL URGES PRESERVATION OF EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS FUNDING
  Sen. Chuck Hagel (R-NE) sent a letter yesterday to Tommy Thompson, Secretary of Health and Human Services, opposing any plans to reduce funding to states for the Public Health Emergency Preparedness and Response for Bioterrorism program distributed by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).  
   "Any reduction in funds to states under this program threatens preparedness efforts. While I understand your desire to protect highly populated areas, this should not be done at the expense of the rest of the country," Hagel said in the letter. 
   Under the current program, states receive base funding of $5 million with additional funds allocated based on population. The new proposal would reduce the base amount by over $1 million per state in order to pay for initiatives in "high threat" cities. The proposed reduction in base funding has a proportionally greater impact on rural states like Nebraska because rural states receive relatively little per-capita funding under the formula for this program. 
   Nebraska's Chief Medical Officer Dr. Dick Raymond said, "Nebraska has been upheld as a national model of how to use cooperation and collaboration to maximize preparedness levels with these funds. Reducing funds will not only slow our progress towards improving emergency preparedness, it will also reduce our current level of preparedness activities." Dr. Raymond met with Hagel's staff in Washington today. 
   The letter sent to Secretary Thompson follows. 
   The Honorable Tommy Thompson Secretary of Health and Human Services
  U.S. Department of Health and Human Services 
  200 Independence Avenue, S.W. 
  Washington, DC 20201 
   Dear Secretary Thompson: 
   I write to oppose any plans to reduce Fiscal Year 2004 base funding to states for the Public Health Emergency Preparedness and Response for Bioterrorism program. 
   As you know, states currently receive $5 million in base funding under this program, with additional funds allocated based on population. States rely heavily on these funds to upgrade capacity for responding to bioterrorism and other public health threats and emergencies. The recent proposal from your office to reprogram these funds would reduce the base amount by over $1 million per state in order to pay for initiatives in "high threat" cities. 
   Any reduction in funds to states under this program threatens preparedness efforts. The proposed reduction in base funding has a proportionally greater impact on rural states like Nebraska because rural states receive relatively little per-capita funding under the formula for this program. 
   While I understand your desire to protect highly populated areas, this should not be done at the expense of the rest of the country. Threats flow to where defenses are lacking. States must improve their preparedness, and sustain the momentum achieved to date. 
   I ask you to reconsider reprogramming these funds. I look forward to your response. 
   Thank you.
 
 