SENATE PASSES PATRIOT ACT CONFERENCE REPORT
  The U.S. Senate passed the Patriot Act Reauthorization bill today by a vote of 89 to 10. Sen. Chuck Hagel (R-NE) voted for the bill. Last month, Sens. Hagel, John Sununu (R-NH), Larry Craig (R-ID) and Lisa Murkowski (R-AK) negotiated an agreement with the White House on reauthorization of the Patriot Act to ensure it provides sufficient protections for the civil liberties of Americans as well as providing for the nation's security interests.  
   Also included in the bill are provisions from the Combat Meth Act, of which Hagel is an original cosponsor. The Combat Meth Act would strengthen Nebraska's existing restrictions on the sale of medicines containing meth precursor chemicals. In addition to Nebraska's existing restrictions, it would require purchasers to sign a logbook and would limit the amount of pseudoephedrine one person can buy to 9 grams a month and 3.6 grams in a single day. 
   "Over the last several months, Congress has worked hard to negotiate a Patriot Act reauthorization that provides all the tools necessary to fight terrorism, while also protecting the civil liberties of Americans. The legislation passed today is responsible legislation that strikes the appropriate balance between protecting our security and protecting our rights. The provisions from the Combat Meth Act included in the bill will help Nebraska's state and local law enforcement officers and prosecutors crack down on meth traffickers while enhancing community awareness and reporting requirements for countries that export meth precursor chemicals," Hagel said. 
   The Combat Meth Act provides $99 million a year for five years to train state and local law enforcement to investigate and lock-up meth offenders; $20 million in grants for Drug Endangered Children rapid response teams to promote collaboration among federal, state, and local agencies and assist children that have been affected by the production of meth; restricts and records the sale of medicines containing meth precursor chemicals and relocates these products behind the counter, requiring purchasers to show identification and sign a logbook and requires reports to Congress on agency designations of by-products of meth labs as hazardous materials and waste. 
   Hagel will hold a hearing of the Senate Foreign Relations International Economic Policy, Export and Trade Promotion Subcommittee regarding international meth trafficking on March 16th.
 
 