SEN. HAGEL MEETS WITH APPROPRIATION CHAIRMAN TO DISCUSS AGRICULTURE DISASTER AID
  Sens. Chuck Hagel (R-NE), Pat Roberts (R-KS), Max Baucus (D-MT), Mark Dayton (D-MN), Kent Conrad (D-ND), Conrad Burns (R-MT) and Byron Dorgan (D-ND) met with Senate Appropriations Chairman Ted Stevens (R-AK) this morning to urge the Chairman to keep agriculture disaster assistance in the final version of the Homeland Security Appropriations Bill. The Senators followed the meeting by sending the attached letter to Stevens reiterating the importance of disaster assistance. The bill is currently being negotiated in a conference by House and Senate leaders.  
   The disaster aid was included in the Senate version of the bill passed September 15. U.S. Senator Chuck Hagel (R-NE) was a co-sponsor of the amendment which provides $2.9 billion in targeted aid to those who have suffered crop or livestock losses due to natural disasters, such as hurricane or drought. The funding will provide aid to those in Nebraska who have suffered severe losses due to drought conditions. 
   "The need for assistance is real and widespread. However, we also understand the budget pressure you face and the need for fiscal responsibility. We believe the best approach to ensure assistance for all producers suffering losses is the provision unanimously adopted as an amendment to the Senate passed Homeland Security Appropriations Bill," the Senators said in the letter. 
   Attached is a copy of the letter sent to Senator Stevens. 
   The Honorable Ted Stevens 
  Chairman 
  Committee on Appropriations 
  S-128 
  Washington, DC 20510-6028 
   Dear Chairman Stevens: 
   We write to thank you for meeting with us this morning and for your commitment to work with us to achieve disaster assistance for losses suffered by producers nationwide. As you requested, we want to provide guidance on the appropriate legislative language necessary to achieve this goal. 
   We believe the best approach to ensure assistance for all producers suffering losses is the provision unanimously adopted as an amendment to the Senate passed Homeland Security Appropriations Bill. This language is identical to the disaster assistance for crop and livestock losses that was signed into law into 2000. This legislation provides disaster assistance to any producer suffering a crop loss of greater than 35 percent. Producers throughout the entire country are eligible to receive assistance on any crop regardless whether their loss occurred as the result of hurricanes, drought, floods, frost, or any other form of natural disaster. 
   The livestock assistance included in this legislation will be provided to producers suffering grazing losses in counties that have been declared either a presidential or secretarial disaster area - there are no state or regional restrictions attached to this assistance. This is also consistent with past funding for this program, and the language is identical to that signed into law in 2000. 
   Finally, the language includes funding for the Tree Assistance Program (TAP). TAP was authorized in the 2002 Farm Bill and provides assistance from tree losses that are not otherwise covered under the crop loss program. It will provide assistance to producers that have lost their orchards or groves due to natural disasters. 
   Mr. Chairman, the need for assistance is real and widespread. However, we also understand the budget pressures you face and the need for fiscal responsibility. That is why the Senate passed agriculture disaster package only allows producers to receive assistance for losses in 2003 or 2004 - not both. Although some producers suffered losses in both years, allowing assistance in only one of the years provides substantial savings. In addition, we worked to ensure that no regional or state specific add-ons were included in the language approved by the Senate. This not only held down the cost to the taxpayer, but it also ensures that producers with losses will receive assistance without regard to their state or regional affiliations. 
   We thank you for your assistance and willingness to address this matter, and we look forward to working with you to provide this necessary funding to producers throughout the nation.
 
 