SEN. HAGEL INTRODUCES BILL TO AID SOLDIERS' FAMILIES
  Sen. Chuck Hagel (R-NE) introduced legislation today that would raise the military death gratuity paid to the families of military personnel killed while on active duty from $12,000 to $50,000. The increase would also be applied retroactively to all service members on active duty who have died since September 11, 2001. Below is an excerpt from Hagel's floor statement:  
   "As we face the challenges of the 21st Century, servicemen and women sacrificing for their country in a time of war should be assured that their families will be taken care of. The loss of a loved one is a tremendous emotional hardship for families. Congress must do what it can to ensure that it does not cause devastating financial hardship as well," Hagel said in a statement for the record. 
   The military death gratuity is money provided within 72 hours to families of service members who are killed while on active duty. These funds assist next-of-kin with their immediate financial needs. 
   Entire Hagel Floor Statement Follows. 
   FLOOR STATEMENT BY SENATOR CHUCK HAGEL 
   "Military Death Gratuity Improvement Act of 2004" 
   Thursday, September 30, 2004 
   Mr. President, I rise today to introduce the "Military Death Gratuity Improvement Act of 2004." This legislation would raise the military death gratuity paid to the families of military personnel killed while on active duty from $12,000 to $50,000. This increase would also be applied retroactively to all service members on active duty who have died since September 11, 2001. 
   The military death gratuity is money provided within 72 hours to families of service members who are killed while on active duty. These funds assist next-of-kin with their immediate financial needs. 
   As we face the challenges of the 21st Century, servicemen and women sacrificing for their country in a time of war should be assured that their families will be taken care of. The loss of a loved one is a tremendous emotional hardship for families. Congress must do what it can to ensure that it does not cause devastating financial hardship as well. 
   This bill will help alleviate some of the financial hardships faced by the families of our brave servicemen and women who give their lives in service to our country. It will send a message to our brave young men and women and their families that their Nation appreciates their service and sacrifice. I urge my colleagues in the Senate to join me in cosponsoring this legislation. 
   Thank you.
 
 