FOR THOSE SERVING IN WARTIME, LEGISLATION TO ADDRESS THEIR NEEDS
  This week I introduced two pieces of legislation to recognize the extraordinary service and sacrifice of the members of our Armed Forces. The "G.I. Bill Enhancement Act of 2004" would eliminate the current G.I. Bill's $1,200 enrollment fee for active duty members of our nation's military. The "Military Death Gratuity Improvement Act of 2004" would raise the military death gratuity paid to the families of military personnel killed while on active duty from $12,000 to $50,000.  
   This year marks the 60th Anniversary of the Servicemen's Readjustment Act of 1944, best known as the "G.I. Bill." The G.I. Bill ensured that all who served their nation would not be penalized as a result of their time away from their careers and communities in service to their country. The G.I. Bill helped members of our "greatest generation" upon their return home by providing them with the educational tools necessary to pursue the opportunities that they helped preserve for all Americans. Some of my colleagues in the Congress and I are beneficiaries of the G.I. Bill. 
   The current G.I. Bill is tailored to serve members of our military in a time of peace. Upon enlistment, recruits are given the option of enrolling in the G.I. Bill. If they choose to participate, they are charged a $1,200 enrollment fee which is deducted from their monthly pay over 12 months. However, we are now in a time of war and the demands on our service members and their families have been transformed and increased. To that end, changes must be made to the G.I. Bill to ensure that it continues to provide realistic and relevant educational opportunities to those who are defending our country. 
   The G.I. Enhancement Act of 2004 covers any member of the United States military, including Reserve and National Guard members, serving on active duty during the period after President Bush's November 2001 Executive Order that placed the military on a wartime footing. This legislation would: 
   * Waive the G.I. Bill enrollment fee until President Bush's November 2001 Executive Order is rescinded; 
   * Allow all servicemen and women to opt into the G.I. Bill with no penalty or enrollment fee; and 
   * Reimburse those servicemen and women who paid the $1,200 enrollment fee after the November 2001 Executive Order. 
   The Military Death Gratuity Improvement Act of 2004 would help alleviate some of the financial hardships families face when their loved ones are killed. This is the least we can do to provide peace of mind and important protection for families. 
   The military death gratuity is money provided within 72 hours to families of service members who are killed while on active duty. These funds assist next-of-kin with their immediate financial needs. The increase this legislation purports would also be applied retroactively to all service members on active duty who have died since September 11, 2001. 
   As we face the challenges of the 21st Century, servicemen and women sacrificing for their country in a time of war need to be assured that, should the worst occur, their families will be taken care of. The loss of a loved one is a tremendous emotional hardship for families. Congress should do what it can to ensure that it does not cause financial hardships as well. 
   Every American should be proud of how we have responded to the challenges of terrorism following September 11, 2001. We owe much to the men and women who have fought in Afghanistan and Iraq and who have kept guard around the world. The "G.I. Bill Enhancement Act of 2004" and the "Military Death Gratuity Improvement Act of 2004" recognize these sacrifices and look to address the needs of our Armed Forces.
 
 