SEN. HAGEL ISSUES STATEMENT ON NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE ESTIMATE ON IRANIAN NUCLEAR WEAPONS PROGRAM
 U.S. Senator Chuck Hagel (R-NE) issued the following statement today on the latest National Intelligence Estimate (NIE) on Iran. The NIE, released by Director of National Intelligence, Admiral Mike McConnell, concluded with high confidence that Iran halted its nuclear weapons program in 2003.  
   "The National Intelligence Estimate represents very significant information on Iran's nuclear capabilities. I commend Admiral McConnell and his colleagues for their decision to release unclassified conclusions based on this current intelligence, which is critical to developing an informed U.S. strategy towards Iran. 
   "We learned today that the collective judgment of all sixteen U.S. intelligence agencies is that Iran probably halted its nuclear weapons program in fall 2003. This is a major reversal of the intelligence community's previous intelligence assessment in 2005 that Iran was determined to develop nuclear weapons. The NIE states that the nuclear weapons program was halted 'primarily in response to international pressure' which 'suggests that Iran may be more vulnerable to influence.' Importantly, DNI has concluded that 'some combination of threats of intensified scrutiny and pressures, along with opportunities for Iran to achieve its security, prestige, and goals...might...prompt Tehran to extend the current halt to its nuclear weapons program.' 
   "This NIE, as well as the information produced by the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) regarding Iran's nuclear weapons program, will help inform U.S. strategy on Iran. President Bush has a clear responsibility to carefully consider the policy implications of this new information. The U.S. must pursue a wise and strategic policy toward Iran, based on this new intelligence and fact-based assessments, to avoid the disastrous mistakes of Iraq. As I said in my November 8 speech regarding U.S.-Iran policy, the United States must employ a comprehensive strategy that uses all elements of its foreign policy arsenal, in particular offering 'direct, unconditional and comprehensive talks' with Iran - where all issues, ours and Iran's, are on the table, including offering Iran a credible way back from the fringes of the international community, security guarantees, and other incentives. Our strategy must be one focused on direct and comprehensive engagement and diplomacy?backed by the leverage of international pressure, military options, isolation and containment. Now is the time for America to act in light of the NIE report and the momentum generated by the Annapolis Middle East meeting last week."
 
 