HEALTH CARE REFORM COMMISSION
  By Sen. Chuck Hagel 
  Health care is an issue that affects every Nebraskan. Whether it be senior citizens struggling with the new Medicare Prescription Drug Benefit, small business owners trying to provide affordable health insurance for their employees, or access to health care in rural Nebraska, I hear concerns about health care more than any other issue. Last week, I announced the formation of a Health Care Reform Commission. The purpose of the Commission is to review all dimensions of the current state of health care and present recommendations to develop a sustainable, accessible, affordable and quality health care system for the 21st century. 
   The Commission brings together 15 respected health care professionals from a broad range of Nebraska's and the nation's health care fields. The Commission will focus on all facets of health care, including health care costs and access to reliable health care. The final report of recommendations will define the challenges facing the U.S. health care system and recommend legislative initiatives that need to be made at the federal level to accomplish this mandate. The Commission will have one year to produce a written report about the current state of health care in America and present its recommendations about what needs to be done to address America's health care needs.  
   According to a 2005 study done by the Kaiser Family Foundation, the top three health care priorities for Americans were: lowering the costs of health care and health insurance; making Medicare more fiscally sound for the future; and increasing the number of Americans with health insurance. In 2004, 11.4 percent of Nebraskans were uninsured and 65 percent of those uninsured state that cost was the reason they did not purchase private insurance. These are some of the issues that the Commission will tackle over the coming year. 
   The Health Care Commission will focus on the improvement of health care quality and delivery in America; the containment of health care costs; the role medical science and technology will continue to have in health care reform; the improvement of access to health care for all Americans; exploring more effective financing vehicles for American health care than current public and private plans; and addressing the "baby boom" demographic and its impact on future health care costs and services. Additionally, the Commission will look into the rising cost of health insurance, disease management programs, the cost and availability of prescription drugs, long-term care needs, rural health care needs, nursing shortages, preventative health care, health information technology and others. Chuck Marr, founding CEO of Alegent Health in Omaha, will serve as the Commission's Chairman. I am grateful to these health care professionals who have volunteered their time, energy and expertise to this project and look forward to hearing their recommendations. Members of the Commission include Dr. Todd Sorensen, Regional West Medical Center; Jack Vetter, Vetter Health Services, Inc.; Dr. Keith Mueller, UNMC; Mike DeFreece, MarketSphere Consulting, LLC; Dr. Daniel Wilson, Creighton University Medical Center; Dr. Mary Lee Fitzsimmons, Iowa/Nebraska Primary Care Association; Dr. J. Chris Bradberry, Creighton University Medical Center; Steve Martin, Blue Cross/Blue Shield of Nebraska; Lisa Lechowicz, HDM Corporation; Dr. Dennis Goeschel, UNMC; Dr. Virginia Tilden, UNMC; Dr. Bill Bush, doctor of Private Practice in Anesthesiology; Jim Berarducci, Kurt Salmon Associates, Inc. and Dr. Charles Gregorius, Associated Anesthesiologists. 
   I am committed to not just talking about the challenges facing our future health care needs, but formulating responsible and comprehensive solutions to this growing crisis in our country. The Health Care Reform Commission's recommendations will help me formulate needed health care legislation to address these challenges.
 
 