SECRETARY CASPAR WEINBERGER
  By Sen. Chuck Hagel
  America lost one of the preeminent public servants of our time on March 28th when former Secretary of Defense Caspar Weinberger passed away at the age of 88. 
   An inventory of Cap Weinberger's service to our country is a tribute to his patriotism: he served in the Army in World War II; he oversaw the state of California's finances for Governor Ronald Reagan in the 1960's; he served under Presidents Nixon and Ford as Chairman of the Federal Trade Commission, Director of the Office of Management and Budget, and Secretary of the Department of Health, Education and Welfare; and he again served Ronald Reagan as our country's 15th Secretary of Defense from 1981 to 1987.  
   Cap Weinberger understood the American military from the ground up. After getting his law degree from Harvard, he enlisted in the Army a few months before the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor. As a private in the infantry, he served in the South Pacific. He worked his way up to serve as an officer on General Douglas MacArthur's intelligence staff. When he left the Army as a captain in 1945, he had seen the brutal reality of war. 
   36 years later, as Secretary of Defense during the tipping point of the Cold War, Cap Weinberger led an unprecedented rebuilding of an American military that had been demoralized and devastated by Vietnam. He increased overall defense spending by more than 50 percent to nearly $300 billion a year, adding 89 ships to the Navy and two divisions to the Army. The priority he placed on increasing compensation and support for service members increased enlistment and re-enlistment numbers. He left behind the most professional and technologically advanced military the world had ever known. 
   Secretary Weinberger knew we needed the world's best military not because we wanted war, but because we wanted to prevent war. In his memoir In the Arena (a personally inscribed copy is on my bookshelf in my Senate office), published in 2001, Cap Weinberger said this: 
   "Some thought it was incongruous that I did so much to build up our defenses but was reluctant to commit forces abroad. I did not arm to attack...We armed so that we could negotiate from strength, defend freedom and make war less likely." 
   In his autobiography, My American Journey, Colin Powell, who worked for Secretary Weinberger, recounts an address Weinberger gave to the National Press Club on November 28, 1984 in which he laid out six tests for determining when to commit American troops. Powell recounts it this way: 
   "He was put off by fancy phrases like 'interpositional forces' and 'presence' that turned out to mean putting U.S. troops in harm's way without a clear mission. He objected to troops being 'used' in the worst sense of that word. He came up with six tests for determining when to commit American forces: 
   1. Commit only if our or our allies' vital interests are at stake. 
   2. If we commit, do so with all the resources necessary to win. 
   3. Go in only with clear political and military objectives. 
   4. Be ready to change the commitments if the objectives change, since wars rarely stand still. 
   5. Only take on commitments that can gain the support of the American people and the Congress. 
   6. Commit U.S. forces only as a last resort." 
   Cap Weinberger is the model of what a Secretary of Defense should be. 
   When I was President of the World USO in the late-1980's, I had the privilege of working closely with Secretary Weinberger. As a Senator, I sought his wise counsel and sound advice. Without fail, he was always candid, thoughtful and generous with his time...and correct in his analysis. 
   All Americans owe this great patriot our gratitude and respect. We have much to learn from the lessons of Casper Weinberger's service to his country and his exemplary life.
 
 