SEN. HAGEL PRAISES JAMI HARPER AS 2008 CARING AWARD WINNER
  U.S. Senator Chuck Hagel (R-NE) today praised Ms. Jami Harper, 19, of Grand Island, Nebraska for receiving the 2008 National Caring Award for Young Adults from the Caring Institute of Washington, D.C. Jami was recognized for her extraordinary efforts to promote public health as an environmental educator. Jami will be among five young adults to be honored during the National Caring Awards ceremony on April 7 in Washington, D.C.  
   "On behalf of all Nebraskans I congratulate Jami on receiving this prestigious award. She is a wonderful role model who personifies the values of caring, integrity and public service. We all have a responsibility to make our world a better place, and individuals such as Jami are shining examples of the great capacity we all have to look beyond one's own self interest," Hagel said. 
   Jami received this award due to her extraordinary efforts as an environmental educator who has made her cause to promote public health fun. She has developed books and games as an educational tool to inform children on topics such as clean water and the harmful effects of smoking. For example, Jami has urged children to save water resources through a book based on the board game Candy Land. Jami also developed a game called H2Owood Squares, based on the show Hollywood Squares, as a way to teach children about the importance of clean water. Jami invented the game after hearing about tainted water in her community, and she's presented it at hundreds of schools. 
   Jami was nominated by individuals in her community. The nominees are then voted on and selected by the Board of Trustees of the Caring Institute and previous Caring Award recipients. The Caring Institute identifies people who give back to society in extraordinary ways and holding them up as role models to be identified by others. For more information on the Caring Institute, and how to nominate an individual in your community, please visit www.caringinstitute.org or call 202.547.4273.
 
 