SEN. HAGEL SENDS LETTER TO VA SECRETARY REGARDING BACKLOG OF CLAIMS
 Sen. Chuck Hagel (R-NE) sent a letter to Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Secretary Anthony Principi asking questions about the backlog of veteran's claims. The current backlog is more than 300,000 claims.  
   "Less than two-thirds of benefit claims by veterans returning from Operations Enduring Freedom and Iraqi Freedom have been processed. I am particularly concerned that this claims backlog comes as the VA is reducing staff to handle benefit claims. 
   As you know, it is critical that servicemen and women who have sacrificed for their country in a time of war be taken care of upon their return home. Failure to do so is irresponsible, immoral and sends a message to our service members and their families that their contributions and sacrifices are not fully appreciated," Hagel said in the letter. 
   The budget for 2005 includes cutting the Department of Veterans Affairs staff that handle benefit claims. The budget is currently pending in Congress. 
   Attached is a copy of the letter sent to VA Secretary Principi. 
   Dear Mr. Secretary: 
   I am writing in regard to delays in the processing of benefit claims for troops returning from Iraq and Afghanistan. 
   On October 3, 2004, the enclosed Washington Post article detailed how thousands of troops returning from the war on terrorism have encountered an overburdened disability benefits system at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). According to this story, less than two-thirds of benefit claims by veterans returning from Operations Enduring Freedom and Iraqi Freedom have been processed. I am particularly concerned that this claims backlog comes as the VA is reducing staff to handle benefit claims. 
   As you know, it is critical that servicemen and women who have sacrificed for their country in a time of war be taken care of upon their return home. Failure to do so is irresponsible, immoral and sends a message to our service members and their families that their contributions and sacrifices are not fully appreciated. 
   Please provide me with an explanation of The Washington Post story and a current status of this issue. Specifically, I would like to know the extent of the claims backlog at the VA, and your plans to remedy the situation. 
   The American people must have confidence that their government fully recognizes the sacrifices made by our servicemembers in war and assured that they are being taken care of when they return from that war. 
   I look forward to your prompt response. Thank you.
 
 