SEN. HAGEL SENDS LETTER TO SECRETARY RUMSFELD REGARDING VACCINES FOR SOLDIERS
  Sen. Chuck Hagel (R-NE) sent a letter today to Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld about the development and implementation of a adenovirus vaccine for military service members. Adenovirus has infected up to one in 10 recruits in basic training courses, with the death of six recruits linked to the virus.  
   "I was disturbed to learn that previous production of adenovirus vaccine was halted due to budgetary concerns and that a new vaccine will be unavailable until at least 2007 according to an October 3, 2004 Washington Post article. 
   As you know, it is critical that servicemen and women who have sacrificed for their country be provided the best healthcare possible. Failure to do so is irresponsible, immoral and sends a message to our service members and their families that their contributions and sacrifices are not fully appreciated," Hagel said in the letter. 
   The vaccine program was abandoned by the defense department in 1996 for budgetary reasons. Hagel requested the status of the development of the new adenovirus vaccine and its timetable for implementation. 
    Attached is a copy of the letter sent to Secretary Rumsfeld. 
   Dear Mr. Secretary: 
   I am writing with regard to the development and implementation of a adenovirus vaccine for military service members. 
   On October 3, 2004, the enclosed Washington Post article detailed how adenovirus has infected up to one in 10 recruits in basic training courses, with the death of six recruits linked to the virus. I was disturbed to learn that previous production of adenovirus vaccine was halted due to budgetary concerns and that a new vaccine will be unavailable until at least 2007 according to this article. 
   Please provide me with an explanation of this story (if it is accurate) and the current status of this issue. Specifically, I would like to know the status of the development of the new adenovirus vaccine and its timetable for implementation and what the Department of Defense intends to do in the interim. 
   As you know, it is critical that servicemen and women who have sacrificed for their country be provided the best healthcare possible. Failure to do so is irresponsible, immoral and sends a message to our service members and their families that their contributions and sacrifices are not fully appreciated. 
   I look forward to your prompt response. Thank you.
 
 