SEN. HAGEL ISSUES STATEMENT ON PROPOSED FARM SUBSIDY PAYMENT LIMITS IN BUSH'S BUDGET
 Bush Administration officials were quoted today in The New York Times saying that the Fiscal Year 2006 Budget President Bush presents to Congress tomorrow would set an overall limit of $250,000 on farm subsidy payments. 
   In 2002, U.S. Senator Chuck Hagel (R-NE) introduced an amendment to the Farm Bill with Senators Chuck Grassley (R-IA) and Byron Dorgan (D-ND) which would have limited farm payments. Their amendment passed with 66 votes in the Senate, but was stripped from the final version of the Farm Bill. In March 2003 Hagel, Grassley and Dorgan introduced a bill to limit farm subsidy payments to $275,000. 
   Hagel released the following statement today reacting to the report in The New York Times: 
   "I am encouraged that the Administration is supporting payment limits to large agriculture operations. This step to level the playing field for small family farmers is long overdue. As I did in my previous legislation to limit farm payments, I will continue to support responsible payment limits as the budget process moves forward," Hagel said. 
   In a May 8, 2002 speech on the Senate floor explaining his vote against the Farm Bill, Hagel said the following: 
   "Of the many problems with this farm bill, one of the most serious is the lack of real payment limits. Currently, two-thirds of all federal payments go to 10% of the recipients - the largest operators and landowners. These lopsided payments encourage and subsidize overproduction, drive up land prices, land values, rentals and allow large farm operations to outbid and buy up smaller and mid-sized producers with taxpayer dollars. 
   This farm bill will only widen the disparity gap between small and large farmers, and it will make it much more difficult in the future to gain Congressional support from non-rural Members of Congress. Without real payment limits, we risk derailing public support for the entire farm program in the future," Hagel said.
 
 