SEN. HAGEL SPONSORS RESOLUTION ON AFGHAN ELECTIONS
  Sen. Chuck Hagel (R-NE) introduced a resolution commending the people of Afghanistan for holding landmark Presidential elections on Saturday, October 9, 2004. Hagel, the Ranking Republican Member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, was joined by Committee Chairman Richard Lugar (R-IN) and Sens. Joseph Biden (D-DE), John McCain (R-AZ), Patrick Leahy (D-VT), John Sununu (R-NH) and Chris Dodd (D-CT) in introducing the resolution. Below is an excerpt from Hagel's floor statement:  
   "The Government and people of Afghanistan deserve our praise and recognition for their achievements. The presidential election this week is a critical benchmark for America's commitment to a long-term partnership with Afghanistan. 
   America's interests in Afghanistan are linked to our wider objectives in the war on terrorism, and in promoting security and more open political and economic systems throughout the Greater Middle East and Central Asia," Hagel said in a statement for the Congressional Record. 
   Hagel was the lead Senate sponsor of the Afghanistan Freedom Support Act of 2002 which authorized more than $3 billion in political, economic and security assistance and committed the United States to the development of democratic institutions and a representative government in Afghanistan. The Afghanistan presidential election will take place Saturday, October 9, 2004. Over 10.5 million Afghans are registered to vote in the election, more than 40% are women. 
   Entire Hagel Floor Statement is Attached. 
   FLOOR STATEMENT BY SENATOR CHUCK HAGEL 
   "Resolution on Afghanistan's Elections" 
   Wednesday, October 6, 2004 
   Mr. President, I rise today to introduce a resolution recognizing the landmark Presidential elections that will take place in Afghanistan this Saturday, October 9, 2004. 
   My colleagues Senators Lugar (R-IN), Biden (D-DE), Leahy (D-VT), McCain (R-AZ), Sununu (R-NH) and Dodd (D-CT) join me as original co-sponsors of this resolution. 
   The Government and people of Afghanistan deserve our praise and recognition for their achievements since the emergency Loya Jirga of June 2002. The process leading to this historic election has not always been easy. Warlords and Taliban members have sought to intimidate voters and disrupt the process. But the government of President Hamid Karzai and the people of Afghanistan have not been deterred. More than 10.5 million Afghan citizens have been reported registered to vote, reflecting the courage and commitment of Afghans to a democratic future. Over forty per cent of those registered are women. 
   The Afghanistan Freedom Support Act of 2002 (PL 107-327) authorized the United States Government to provide $3.3 billion in political, economic and security assistance to Afghanistan. It also expressed the U.S. Congress's support for the development of democratic institutions and a fully representative government in Afghanistan that respects religious freedom and the rights of women. The presidential election this week is a critical benchmark for America's commitment to a long-term partnership with Afghanistan for responsible governance and a more peaceful future. 
   America's interests in Afghanistan are linked to our wider regional objectives in the war on terrorism, and in promoting security and more open political and economic systems throughout the Greater Middle East and Central Asia. 
   President Bush said on June 15, 2004, that "the world and the United States stand with [the people of Afghanistan] as partners in their quest for peace and prosperity and stability and democracy." 
   Mr. President, I ask the Senate to recognize the historic achievement of the 
   Afghan people in holding presidential elections this week, and to join the co-sponsors of this resolution and me in expressing our continued support for the people of Afghanistan.
 
 