SEN. HAGEL INTRODUCES BILL TO INCREASE PUBLIC HEALTH WORKFORCE
  Sen. Chuck Hagel (R-NE) and Sen. Dick Durbin (D-IL) introduced today The Public Health Preparedness Workforce Development Act of 2004. This legislation aims to increase the pipeline of qualified public health workers at the federal, state, and local levels by offering scholarships to students going into the public health field. It also encourages current employees to stay in the public health field by providing loan repayments in exchange for a commitment of a designated number of years of service in public health.  
   "There are critical public health workforce shortages in federal, state, and local public health agencies. The ability of the public health system to respond to emerging infectious diseases like West Nile Virus, food-borne illnesses, or bioterrorism relies on a well-trained, adequately staffed public health network at all levels. It is important that we address this problem before it becomes a crisis," Hagel said. 
   "The pending public health workforce shortage jeopardizes terrorism preparedness and our ability to handle any public health emergency, while meeting the daily demands of public health personnel to educate, prevent disease and serve the public," said Dick Raymond, Chief Medical Officer of the Nebraska Health and Human Services System. Beginning in Sept 2004, he will be President of the Association of State and Territorial Health Officials (ASTHO). ASTHO has endorsed the Public Health Preparedness Workforce Development Act of 2004. 
   The average age of lab technicians, epidemiologists, environmental health experts, microbiologists, IT specialists, public health administrators and others who make up the public health workforce is 47, seven years older than the average age of the nation's workforce. Over the next five years, Nebraska will have more public health workers who are eligible for retirement than any other state in the nation. 
   To encourage young people to enter the public health field, Hagel's legislation authorizes $35 million per year for scholarships, and $195 million per year for loan repayments. Eighty percent of the funds would be dedicated for placing public health workers at the state and local level. Bonus payments would be available to those who agree to be placed in underserved areas.
 
 