SEN. HAGEL COMMENTS ON AMBASSADOR KHALILZAD, NOMINEE TO BE U.S. AMBASSADOR TO IRAQ
  Statement by U.S. Senator Chuck Hagel on Ambassador Zalmay Khalilzad, Nominee to be U.S. Ambassador to Iraq  
   Senate Foreign Relations Committee - Mr. Chairman, it is again my privilege and honor to introduce Dr. Zalmay Khalilzad to this Committee. In October 2003, I introduced Dr. Khalilzad as the President's nominee to be the U.S. Ambassador to Afghanistan. Today, after serving with high distinction in Kabul, Ambassador Khalilzad is now the President's nominee to be the U.S. Ambassador to Iraq.  
   Ambassador Khalilzad's accomplishments in Afghanistan are significant. During his tenure, Afghanistan held the first free and fair elections in the nation's history, establishing the Afghan government headed by President Hamid Karzai. He led U.S. efforts to help establish effective Afghan security forces. Ambassador Khalilzad oversaw U.S. reconstruction assistance that is allowing economic growth opportunities for the Afghan people. And, he worked tirelessly to establish the rights of Afghan women. 
   Iraq is the most difficult and complicated challenge that confronts the United States today. More than two years since the invasion began, Iraq's transition to peace, prosperity and security is not assured. 
   The newly-elected government's efforts to establish the tenets of democracy in Iraq must overcome decades of repression and brutality that fostered ethnic and religious divisions and hatred. Iraq confronts a complex and deadly insurgency that remains unbroken and which seeks to return the country to repression and dictatorship. And, the daunting reconstruction efforts remain priorities for Iraq, the United States, and the international community. Ambassador Khalilzad will be dealing with all of these immense challenges in Iraq. 
   Prior to his tenure as U.S. Ambassador in Afghanistan, he served as Special Presidential Envoy for Afghanistan; Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Southwest Asia, Near East and North Africa on the National Security Council; Special Envoy to the Free Iraqis; Counselor to the Secretary of Defense; and Assistant Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Policy Planning. 
   Ambassador Khalilzad's previous experience in Iraq, regional knowledge, and the confidence of President Bush will serve him well in leading U.S. efforts to help Iraq build a future of peace, prosperity and security. 
   I would also like to recognize Ambassador Khalilzad's wife, Cheryl Benard, who is with us today. Cheryl, thank you for your support. Ambassador Khalilzad's two sons, Alexander - who interned in my office - and Maximillian, unfortunately could not be with us today. 
   Mr. Chairman, I have worked closely with Ambassador Khalilzad for many years and look forward to continue working with him in this important new role. I strongly endorse Ambassador Khalilzad's nomination to be the next U.S. Ambassador to Iraq and enthusiastically recommend him to this Committee. 
   Thank you.
 
 