SEN. HAGEL: AMERICA'S CIVIL RIGHTS PIONEERS
 February is Black History Month and an opportunity to recognize the immense contributions African-American leaders, such as the late Coretta Scott King, Rosa Parks, Omaha's Mildred Brown, and Judge Constance Baker Motley, have made towards creating a culture of equality in America. These women and others dedicated their lives to ensure that all individuals had opportunities to vote, to participate in and be responsible for their communities, and to positively influence America's future.  
   Coretta Scott King was an example of the power of an American voice. She was a voice for nonviolent social change and justice in America. It was while she was studying voice and violin at Boston's New England Conservatory of Music that she met a Boston University student named Martin Luther King, Jr. They were married on June 18, 1953 and took up residence in Montgomery, Alabama. There, they began the important work that would spread across our nation and the globe. My son Ziller and I had an opportunity to introduce King last February during the launch of Generation Engage, a bipartisan grassroots initiative to involve more young Americans in politics and public policy. Coretta Scott King was one of our nation's most influential and respected leaders. She will be missed. This week, all of America honors Coretta Scott King and reflects upon her life and service to our country. 
   Rosa Parks is a symbol of how a single American can make a lasting difference. Last October, she passed away at the age of 92. She was a courageous leader during the early days of the civil rights movement and an icon of strength throughout her life. Parks came to embody the best of America's spirit through a simple act that demonstrated her commitment to positive social change. Last November, I cosponsored a Senate resolution to place a statue of Rosa Parks in the U.S. Capitol. Last month, I cosponsored legislation to create a postage stamp to commemorate Mrs. Park's life and work. A statue honoring Mrs. Parks in the Capitol would be the first statue in 148 years to be commissioned by Congress. A statue and commemorative stamp of Rosa Parks are appropriate honors to celebrate the legacy and ideals of this great American. 
   Mildred Brown founded the Omaha Star newspaper with her husband S. Edward Gilbert in 1938. She graduated from Miles Memorial Teachers College in Birmingham, Alabama at the age of 16 and later moved to Omaha, using the newspaper to engage Omaha's African-American community in peaceful social change. Brown was a wise and steady civil rights activist throughout her life, until she passed away in 1989. She used the Omaha Star newspaper as an important community resource that encouraged African-Americans to be politically involved and positively engaged. All Nebraskans can be inspired by Mildred Brown's legacy, and strive to emulate her commitment to strengthen understanding and diversity in our communities. 
   Judge Constance Baker Motley, appointed to the federal court in the Southern District of New York by President Johnson in 1966, was the first African-American woman federal judge. She served as an active judge for 20 years and nearly 19 years as a senior judge. Prior to her career on the bench, Judge Motley was a leading woman lawyer in the civil rights movement in the 1950s and 1960s. This month, I cosponsored legislation that details her life and career as a lawyer and directs Congress to posthumously award Judge Motley a congressional gold medal. Judge Motley was a prominent figure during the civil rights movement and is worthy of this recognition. 
   Last week, the Smithsonian Institution chose a prominent location on the National Mall in Washington, D.C. for a National Museum of African-American History and Culture. It has been nearly 100 years since the efforts to build a museum dedicated to black history began. The museum is expected to open within the next ten years, and will highlight African-American history, art, life and culture. The museum will serve as an educational tool, connecting yesterday's lessons learned to today's ongoing challenges to ensure the civil liberties of all Americans. For more information about the planned museum, visit http://nmaahc.si.edu/. 
   A National Museum of African-American History and Culture will serve as the national home for black history and celebrate those who have made that history important. Coretta Scott King, Rosa Parks, Mildred Brown and Judge Constance Baker Motley are examples of what is great about America's rich history. Through their vision, passion, and commitment to a cause larger than themselves, they remain an example of what you can become in America. It is in their spirit that we never cease to be informed, engaged American citizens.
 
 