SEN. HAGEL COSPONSORS EARMARK REFORM RESOLUTION
 Sen. Chuck Hagel (R-NE) cosponsored a Senate Resolution yesterday introduced by Sens. Trent Lott (R-MS) and Diane Feinstein (D-CA) that would require advanced disclosure of earmarks and conference reports. Attached is a statement Hagel gave at today's Senate Rules Committee hearing:  
   "Mr. Chairman. Thank you for calling this hearing today. I welcome the opportunity to examine what can be done to address recent revelations of lobbying laws and ethics rules being broken. Congress needs to respond in a reasonable and deliberate manner - I hope we will avoid the classic Washington response to problems: more rules, more laws...overreaction. 
   Ethics is an issue of personal responsibility. It is about personal standards and conduct. Oftentimes, Congress gets caught up in focusing on what is legal rather than what is ethical. We can change rules and write new laws, but the fact is no law will stop those who are intent on violating standards or breaking laws. 
   I think it is silly for Congress to be debating whether to ban a token gift from a constituent. We need to be working to restore the public's faith in the integrity of its elected representatives and our responsibilities to govern honestly and ethically. 
   Yesterday, I cosponsored the Lott-Feinstein Resolution that would require advanced disclosure of earmarks and conference reports. This is the kind of straight-forward legislation that addresses many concerns about earmarks and other provisions inserted into conference reports late in the process without knowledge of most Members. By requiring disclosure of contents of conference reports and earmarks, the Resolution will help ensure that Senators have the opportunity to make educated decisions about their appropriations votes. Disclosure - transparency - is the answer to accountable conduct and governance. 
   In addition to passing the Lott-Feinstein Resolution, Congress should focus on measures to help restore the public's faith in Congress. Few people in Nebraska, or anywhere in the country, are confident Washington is putting their money to the best possible use. Federal spending is out-of-control. We know it and so do our constituents. Until we deal with this issue, the public will perceive that we are not truly representing their interests. 
   If we do not change the way we do the nation's business, the public will remain skeptical and break the indispensable trust between the governed and those who govern. I look forward to working with the Chairman and members of this Committee on this important issue. 
   Thank you."
 
 