CELEBRATING, REMEMBERING OUR NATION'S VETERANS EVERY DAY
  Almost 25 million living Americans have served in the United States Armed Forces. These quiet heroes came from diverse backgrounds and were united by their common duty and uncommon courage. In 2000, the U.S. Congress voted unanimously to create the Veterans History Project - a nationwide volunteer effort to honor veterans by recording and preserving their stories. Over the last four years, these recordings have been taking place in communities all across America, with grandchildren interviewing grandparents, veterans interviewing each other, and students interviewing veterans for classroom assignments.  
   The voices of men and women who served in defense of our nation tell the stories of almost a century of service - through two World Wars, Korea, Vietnam, the Gulf War, and the Balkans Conflict. These are personal stories told through the voices of those who served. 
   Through the Veterans History Project we capture each veteran's story and preserve them for future generations. The book, Voices of War, will be released this Veterans Day by National Geographic and the Library of Congress to help chronicle individual stories of service from the front lines to the home front. I am honored to have my story archived in the Veterans History Project and Voices of War, as both gave me the opportunity to record my thoughts on what I experienced during the Vietnam War. 
   Recounting and sharing memories of war presents an opportunity to share an appreciation for the sacrifices made by our veterans and their families. It is important that Americans never forget this legacy and those who fought and died for our future. Thousands of organziations and volunteers, including AARP state offices, veterans organizations, local schools, historical societies, and Congressional offices have partnered with the Veterans History Project to collect stories from Americans whose heroic deeds and wartime efforts preserved our freedom. To date, the Veterans History Project has received more than 25,000 submissions and over 80,000 items. 
   This Veterans Day, I urge you to interview a veteran. If you are a veteran, record your story. Preserving personal stories from veterans who have served ensures a better understanding of our individual and collective struggle for democracy and freedom. Vietnam veteran Rod Hinsch put it well in his interview when he observed, "only the veterans, history and God ever know the real truth about...war fought long ago and so very far away." We cannot lose this enduring piece of our national history. Take time this Veterans Day to experience the history of America through the voices of those who lived it. 
   To learn more about how to participate in the Veterans History Project and about the Voices of War, visit www.loc.gov/vets. 
   Happy Veterans Day! 
   U.S. Senator Chuck Hagel (R-NE) sponsored the legislation that created the Veterans History Project in 2000. He Serves on the Project's Five Star Council.
 
 