SETTING A NEW COURSE ON CLIMATE CHANGE
  By U.S. Senator Chuck Hagel, Delivered at Brookings Institution Briefing on Climate Change Policy, Washington, D.C. 
   Thank you, David, for inviting me to speak at this Brookings Institution Briefing on Climate Change Policy. I appreciate Brookings' leadership in bringing nonpartisan, informed and expert analysis to difficult public policy issues, including climate change.  
   Global climate policy affects the world's economic, energy, and environmental policies. Climate change does not recognize national borders. It is a shared responsibility for all nations. Dealing with global climate policy requires a level of diplomatic intensity and coordination worthy of the magnitude of the challenge. 
   The scientific community is not uniform in its assessments of the causes or solutions for dealing with climate change. There is no doubt that human society is having an impact on our environment. There have been numerous studies looking at how man's actions may be affecting the climate. That impact is subject to different interpretations, but human society has contributed to pollution and, evidence suggests, a global warming trend. We also know that global warming trends have occurred in cycles throughout the earth's history. 
   There will always be uncertainties and incomplete information in any climate policy. But that should not inhibit our commitment to developing climate policies based on sound science. 
   The climate change debate is not a debate about who is for or against the environment. No one wants dirty air, dirty water, prolonged drought or declining standards of living for their children and grandchildren. We all agree on the need for a clean environment and stable climate. The debate is about solutions. The question we face is not whether we should take action, but what kind of action we should take. Climate change initiatives should include commitments to research and development, technology, and a more efficient and productive use of energy and resources. 
   In the next few days, I will introduce comprehensive climate change legislation that authorizes new programs, policies, and incentives to address the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. It will focus on the role of technology, private and public partnerships, and developing countries. 
   Any climate policy initiative must include clear metrics that recognize the links between energy, the economy and the environment. It is a global issue. Too often these policies are considered in vacuums. Bringing in the private sector, and creating incentives for technological innovation, will be critical to real progress on global climate policy. 
   I believe that greenhouse gas intensity, or the amount of carbon emitted relative to economic output, is the best measurement for dealing with climate change. Greenhouse gas emission intensity is the measurement of how efficiently a nation uses carbon emitting fuels and technology in producing goods and services. It captures the links between energy efficiency, economic development and the environment. 
   My plan includes three pieces of legislation: 
  ? The Climate Change Technology Deployment in Developing Countries Act; 
  ? The Climate Change Technology Deployment Act; and, 
  ? The Climate Change Technology Tax Incentives Act. 
   The Climate Change Technology Deployment in Developing Countries Act provides the Secretary of State with new authority for coordinating assistance to developing countries for projects and technologies that reduce greenhouse gas intensity. It supports the development of a U.S. global climate strategy to expand the role of the private sector, develop public-private partnerships, and encourage the deployment of greenhouse gas reducing technologies in developing countries. This bill directs the Secretary of State to engage global climate change as a foreign policy issue. It directs the U.S. Trade Representative to negotiate the removal of trade-related barriers to the export of greenhouse gas intensity reducing technologies, and establishes an inter-agency working group to promote the export of greenhouse gas intensity reducing technologies and practices from the United States. The legislation authorizes fellowship and exchange programs for foreign officials to visit the United States and acquire the expertise and knowledge to reduce greenhouse gas intensity in their countries. 
   Current international approaches to global climate change overlook the role of developing countries as part of either the problem or the solution. One week from today, the UN Global Climate Treaty signed in Kyoto, Japan, in 1997 will enter into force, mandating emission reductions in the developed nations that ratified it. In July 1997, months before the Protocol was signed, the Senate unanimously passed Senate Resolution 98, the Byrd-Hagel Resolution, which called on the President not to sign any treaty or agreement in Kyoto unless two conditions were met. First, the United States should not be party to any legally binding obligations on greenhouse gas emission reductions unless Developing Country Parties are required to meet the same standards. Second, the President should not sign any treaty that "would result in serious harm to the economy of the United States." 
   Kyoto does not meet either of these conditions. As it stands, developing countries are exempt from the Kyoto obligations, leaving 31 developed countries to address greenhouse gas emissions. Developing nations are becoming the major emitters of greenhouse gases, but they are exempted from the Kyoto Protocol. A recent Congressional Budget Office (CBO) report explains that developing countries are projected within the next 20 years to account for two thirds of the growth in carbon dioxide emissions as their populations and economies expand. 
   There are reasons for this. Developing nations cannot achieve greenhouse gas reductions until they achieve higher standards of living. They lack clean energy technology and they cannot absorb the economic impact of the changes necessary for emissions reductions. New policies will require recognition of the limitations of developing nations to meet these standards, and the necessity of including them in any successful future initiative. 
   Because Kyoto does not include developing countries, its approach is unrealistic. Any reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by the United States and other developed countries will soon be eclipsed by emissions from developing nations, such as China, which will soon be the world's largest emitter of manmade greenhouse gases. 
   It is in the shared interests of the United States and industrialized nations to help developing countries by sharing cleaner technology. Developing countries can then "leapfrog" over the highly polluting stages of development that countries like the U.S. have already been through. My legislation includes tax incentives for American businesses to work with foreign countries to help develop clean energy projects and fuel-efficient technologies. 
   The second bill, the Climate Change Technology Deployment Act, supports establishing domestic public-private partnerships for demonstration projects that employ greenhouse gas intensity reduction technologies. My plan provides credit-based financial assistance and investment protection for American businesses and projects that deploy advanced climate technologies or systems. Federal financial assistance includes direct loans, loan guarantees, standby interest coverage, and power production incentive payments. 
   We are most successful in confronting the most difficult issues when we draw on the strength of the private sector. Public-private partnerships meld together the institutional leverage of the government with the innovation of industry. 
   This bill directs the Secretary of Energy to lead an inter-agency process to develop and implement a national climate strategy provided by the Office of Science and Technology Policy. It establishes a Climate Coordinating Committee and Climate Credit Board to assess, approve and fund these projects. 
   The third bill, the Climate Change Technology Tax Incentives Act, amends the tax code to provide incentives for investment in climate change technology. It makes permanent the current research and development tax credit, which otherwise expires on Dec. 31, 2005. 
   An article in last Friday's Wall Street Journal reported on the potential for "geologic storage" of carbon dioxide as a means to dramatically reduce carbon dioxide emissions. Geologic storage involves pumping carbon dioxide into the ground, rather than dumping it into the atmosphere. BP has been using geologic storage in Algeria's Sahara Desert and Statoil has been working on this in Norway's North Sea. Chevron Texaco is planning a project off the coast of Australia. The article reports that, "the concept is drawing growing interest because it could curb global warming more quickly than switching to alternative energy sources or cutting energy use." However, there is still much work to be done. But this is the kind of technology that must be employed around the world to achieve results in reducing greenhouse gas emissions. My legislation would support more of this type of activity. 
   The American people and all global citizens need to better understand global climate change, its connections to our economic and energy policies, and what the realistic options are for addressing this challenge. Any recommendations regarding climate policy must meet the demands of economic growth and development, especially in the developing world. This will require a market-driven, technology-based approach that complements the world's environmental interests, and connects the public and private sectors. 
   Last December, I discussed climate change with Prime Minister Blair in London. I cannot speak for Prime Minister Blair, but I do believe that he understands the limitations of Kyoto, the essential role of technology in addressing climate change, and the need for collective action. He is receptive to a new U.S. initiative that bridges the differences between developed and developing countries. As Blair pointed out last month at the World Economic Forum at Davos, "It is through the fresh injection of political will, by the G-8 and the emerging economies alike, that these differences can be broken down and a new global consensus reached." 
   Achieving reductions in greenhouse gas emissions is one of the important challenges of our time. America has an opportunity and a responsibility for global climate policy leadership. But it is a responsibility to be shared by all nations. I look forward to working with the Congress, the Bush Administration, the private sector, public interest groups, and America's allies on achievable climate change policy. By harnessing our many strengths, we can help shape a worthy future for all people, and build a better world. 
   Thank you.
 
 