SOUTHERN MARYLAND RECEIVES FOUR GRANTS FROM NATIONAL PARK SERVICE
  Sens. Paul S. Sarbanes (D-MD) and Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) today announced the 21 Maryland recipients of grant funding from the National Park Service for the fifth year of the "Chesapeake Bay Gateways Network Program." The program, which Sarbanes authored in 1998, is working to link the natural, historic, cultural and recreational resources of the Chesapeake Bay and its tributaries into a unified network. 
   The grants support projects at places participating in the Chesapeake Bay Gateways Network. According to the National Park Service, the Gateways Network is a partnership system of over 100 parks, refuges, maritime museums, historic seaports and water trails where people can experience and learn about the Chesapeake Bay and its watershed.
   "This program is opening up new opportunities to enhance public awareness and involvement in our on-going efforts to restore the Chesapeake Bay," said Sarbanes. "Each Gateway site tells a different Bay story, and enables people to better understand and appreciate the Chesapeake Bay and all it has to offer.
   "In addition, these grants will help local communities and organizations improve desperately needed public access to the Bay and its waterways, and help to boost the economic activity generated by tourism and recreation within the watershed," Sarbanes added.
   "The Chesapeake Bay is who we are as Marylanders: it is part of our heritage and culture. That's why we must celebrate, appreciate, and fight to protect it," said Senator Barbara A. Mikulski. "Maryland communities and organizations want to do the right thing, but they can't do it alone; that's where the Chesapeake Bay Network Grants can help. I am proud to fight in the U.S. Senate for a federal investment in the Chesapeake Bay."
   Four of the 21 grant recipient sites are located in the Southern Maryland area:
   The awarded sites are:
   Battle Creek Nature Education Society has received $11,300 to help create outdoor wayside signs for key locations along the elevated boardwalk through the Battle Creek Cypress Swamp. The panels will fulfill the long-standing need of completing the overall interpretive picture for the area;
   American Chestnut Land Trust has been awarded $6.596 to fund basic visitor information for the Parkers Creek Nature Preserve. Increased visibility and accessibility to trail head markers are will be the focus of the project; and
   Calvert Maritime Museum will use $42,688 to aid in the development of 'Skates and Rays', an interactive exhibit interpreting the important but unrecognized Bay species. A series of panel displays, audio/visual presentations and custom artwork will depict the many kinds of skates and rays that inhabit local waters.
   Maryland-National Capital Park and Planning Commission has obtained a $17,550 grant to fill a gap in the public interpretation of archeological and historical resources at Mt. Calvert, a section of the Jug Bay Natural Area. This will be accomplished by developing ten interpretive waysides, and interpretive brochure, and including Mt. Calvert on the M-NCPPC website.
   The Chesapeake Bay Gateways Network Program provides grants to non-profit organizations, and state and local governments to enhance places participating in the Gateways Network. The Program is coordinated by the National Park Service in partnership with the Chesapeake Bay Program and a 17-organization working group established by the Bay Program. The website is www.baygateways.net.
   Contact: Jesse Jacobs, 202/224-4524, http://sarbanes.senate.gov.
 
 