SEN. SARBANES WORKS TO PRESERVE CUMBERLAND AREA POSTAL SERVICES
  Sen. Paul S. Sarbanes (D-MD) met yesterday with senior United States Postal Service (USPS) officials to underscore his concerns about the possible consolidation of the Cumberland mail distribution and processing center.  
   In January, 2006 the U.S. Postal Service announced that it was initiating an "area mail processing review" of the Cumberland Post Office to determine whether mail processing should be consolidated and moved to Frederick. Immediately following that announcement, Senator Sarbanes wrote to Postmaster General John Potter expressing concerns about the impacts on mail service for businesses and residents in Western Maryland and the potential loss of jobs in Cumberland. According to union officials, 30 jobs associated with processing at the Cumberland Post Office would be eliminated. 
   "The citizens and businesses deserve to have their mail delivered in an efficient and timely manner," said Sarbanes. "The workers at the Cumberland plant have exhibited their extraordinary abilities to get the job done and I see no reason to consolidate operations at this time."
   During yesterday's meeting, Senator Sarbanes urged Bill Galligan, Senior Vice President of Operations of the U.S. Postal Service, to implement a more transparent process which would enable postal customers, businesses, and other concerned citizens to participate in the study and have their concerns considered. Mr. Galligan committed that no consolidation moves would be made until the concerns and input of the broader community had been heard. 
   In a related action, the full U.S. Senate gave unanimous approval to legislation yesterday, entitled the Postal Reform and Accountability Act. The measure includes provisions that would require the U.S. Postal Service to provide communities potentially affected by consolidation with adequate public notice and to take into account input from these communities when making a final decision. The measure must still be approved by a House-Senate Conference Committee and signed into law by the President.
   Contact: Jesse Jacobs and Andrew Burkowske, 202/224-4524.
 
 