SEN. SARBANES COMMENTS ON 'COVER THE UNINSURED WEEK'
  MR. SARBANES. Mr. President, I rise today in recognition of Cover the Uninsured Week. I want to take this opportunity to highlight the crisis of the uninsured in the United States and to underscore the significant impact that this crisis has on our population. 
   The number of Americans without health insurance is equal to the combined populations of 24 States and the District of Columbia. As of a September 2003 National Bureau of Census report, the most recent set of comprehensive figures on this problem, nearly 44 million people had gone without health insurance for the span of an entire year or longer. Millions more had been uninsured for part of a year. 
   The estimated 43.6 million people who are currently uninsured face constant financial vulnerability. At any moment they could face financial devastation by the costs associated with an unexpected injury or disease. In Maryland alone, there were 595,500 uninsured in 2003 - approximately 13% of Maryland's population. According to the Baltimore Sun, 700,000 people younger than 65 have no insurance. 
   Lack of insurance takes a huge financial toll on families. On average, the uninsured are forced to pay 35% of the overall costs of their medical coverage. As a result, medical bills are the leading cause of bankruptcy and are cited as a reason for half of all personal bankruptcy filings.
   In my own State of Maryland, we hear the worries of people with pre-existing conditions who cannot change their job because they fear they will never again be eligible for affordable health insurance. I hear about recent college graduates who are no longer eligible for coverage under their parent's insurance policy and are going without, hoping nothing happens to them until they find a job that has health benefits. 
   I hear the stories of those who have had to forego care because they are uninsured; mothers, fathers, children who have fatal diseases, forced to face fatal consequences because they cannot effectively access the health care system. Statistics show that up to 18,000 people die each year because we ignore the plight of the uninsured. That is the equivalent of 49 people a day.
   Who are the uninsured? Often we are led to believe that if people are working they will have health coverage for themselves and their families. This is not the case. Eighty percent are in families in which at least one person is working. Many employers and workers are finding it difficult to afford health insurance due to the continual increases in health care costs. Service and labor jobs, which make up a significant portion of our workforce, are less likely to offer insurance. Moreover, part-time workers are often ineligible for employer-sponsored insurance and low-wage workers often cannot afford to pay their premiums.
   This phenomenon has a very negative impact on the lives of children. 8.5 million of our children are uninsured, which is more than the number of children in first and second grade in all of our public schools combined. A Florida Healthy Kids Corporation study showed that uninsured kids are 25% more likely to miss school than insured children. Such a percentage represents a significant disadvantage for children, especially for those who likely face other obstacles as well.
   Often those with insurance take these benefits for granted. We tend to ignore that which does not directly affect us. But those who are ignoring this problem for that reason should think again. There are consequences to all of us for ignoring the plight of the uninsured. According to a recent Institute of Medicine report, the United States loses $65-$130 billion each year as a result of the poor health and early deaths of uninsured adults. These numbers are called lost "health capital," also known as individual work losses and developmental losses in children due to poor health. A community's high rate of uninsurance can adversely affect its overall health status, including the financial stability of its health care institutions and providers. Moreover, such communities face decreased access to services such as emergency departments and trauma centers.
   I hope the Senate in the near future can begin to engage in discussions about meaningful ways to provide quality, comprehensive, affordable health care for all of our citizens. I would like to commend the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation and their co-sponsors for creating "Cover the Uninsured Week." I urge my colleagues to use this week as an opportunity to redouble our efforts to work toward a collective and comprehensive solution to address this critical problem.
 
 