SEN. SARBANES OPPOSES NOMINATION OF JOHN BOLTON AS U.S. AMBASSADOR TO U.N.
  Statement of Sen. Paul S. Sarbanes (D-MD)
  Senate Foreign Relations Committee
  In opposition to the nomination of John Bolton as United States Ambassador to the United Nations
   Mr. Chairman, I want to take just a moment or two of the committee's time, at the outset, to read the names of those who have served as the U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, in order to set some context in thinking about this nomination: Warren Austin, Henry Cabot Lodge, Jr., James Wadsworth, Adlai Stevenson, Arthur Goldberg, George W. Ball, James Russell Wiggins, Charles Yost, George Bush, John Scali, Daniel P. Moynihan, William W. Scranton, Andrew J. Young, Donald F. McHenry, Jeane Kirkpatrick, Vernon Walters, Thomas Pickering, Edward Joseph Perkins, Madeleine Albright, Bill Richardson, Richard Holbrooke, John Negroponte and John Danforth. 
   Now, I do this to underscore the importance of the U.N. ambassadorship, and it's an importance that I think has been recognized in prior administrations. In fact, in some administrations, the U.N. ambassador has been given Cabinet status. Not in all, but in some, the position has been elevated to Cabinet status. It's a very highly visible position, and our ambassador to the U.N. is, in effect, our spokesman in so many ways to the world.
   Now, this has been underscored, the importance of the U.N., by these selections.
   The U.N. makes decisions that affect war and peace. It has a vital role in advancing U.S. foreign policy objectives, if we're skillful in exercising our leadership at the U.N. It helps to determine whether the United States will have international support and allies or will be forced to undertake difficult missions on its own in the face of broad opposition across the globe. The United Nations is a forum for making our case to the world, for demonstrating international leadership and building multilateral cooperation.
   Our representatives at the United Nations must be men and women of exceptional integrity and credibility who can listen and persuade, whose counsel and leadership other nations will seek and rely on. This is a very important position, and the quality of the previous ambassadors demonstrates that that is how it's been so regarded in administration after administration, whether Democratic or Republican.
   Now, over a number of years, Mr. Bolton has demonstrated outright hostility toward the United Nations as an institution and toward the legitimacy of international law. He has argued repeatedly that the U.S. has no legal obligation to pay its dues to the United Nations, that treaties are nothing more than "political commitments".
   He called the Law of the Sea Treaty, which has been endorsed by our military and submitted by President Bush as an "urgent priority" for Senate advice and consent, an "illegitimate method of forcing fundamental policy changes on the United States outside the customary political process."
   He is quoted as saying, "it is a big mistake for us to grant any validity to international law even when it may seem in our short-term interest to do so - because, over the long term, the goal of those who think that international law really means anything are those who want to constrict the United States."
   To send someone as our ambassador to the United Nations who does not demonstrate a basic respect for the institution and its legal foundations is a disservice to our national interests. This has nothing to do with whether you're going to carry out reforms at the U.N. or more closely monitor its activities. It is a very basic question of one's mindset about the United States, about the United Nations and about international law.
   Secondly, I think it's very clear that Mr. Bolton does not have the diplomatic skills or indeed the demeanor to represent our country effectively. There are certainly moments when the situation may call for bluntness, when abandoning diplomatic niceties can convey the urgency of a particular issue or position.
   However, Mr. Bolton has shown a propensity for making extreme and provocative statements that have caused unnecessary conflict and confrontation.
   Does it help us in trying to shape the direction in which the U.N. is to move when Mr. Bolton says that the Security Council should have one permanent member, the United States, "because that's the real reflection of the distribution of power in the world"?
   Does anyone think that Mr. Bolton's assertion that "if the U.N. secretariat building in New York lost 10 stories, it wouldn't make a bit of difference" will help us in persuading other countries to support U.N. reform efforts?
   These are not isolated misstatements or slips of the tongue, but rather his customary and consistent approach to dealing with others who disagree with him. Even given the opportunity to demonstrate a less confrontational approach, he has repeatedly declined to do so. Mr. Bolton, time and time again, has shown himself singularly lacking in the willingness to hear, to consider and to respect opposing points of view.
   Contrast that attitude with these comments to the committee in their confirmation hearings by Ambassador Moynihan and by Ambassador Kirkpatrick.
   Now, I might note, Mr. Chairman, that all of these previous nominees to be U.N. ambassador were approved by overwhelming votes in the committee and on the floor of the United States Senate. Not a one of them had a close vote - many of them unanimous - and in the instances where it wasn't, only a handful of votes against.
   Pat Moynihan, in his confirmation hearing before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee - and I set out these quotes to contrast them with all the testimony we've received about how Mr. Bolton carries on his activities - said, "A certain principled statement of views on both sides can be useful: it requires that we respect what others think and try to understand what they think and ask that they do the same in return. . . . Things where we disagree are marginal compared with where we do agree. And yet it is so easy to grow estranged at the first problem, the first question is how to get away from a confrontation system back to the quest for understanding and agreement in a situation where this is wholly possible and entirely necessary."
   And Ambassador Kirkpatrick, in her confirmation hearing before this committee, said, "I do not think that one should ever seek confrontation. What I have every intention and hope of doing is to operate in a low key, quiet, persuasive and consensus-building way."
   Now, thirdly - and I want to speak to the prospects of Mr. Bolton's credibility as our spokesperson at the United Nations - the material's been quite extensively developed, and I will not go into it in detail here. But it's clear that he's attempted to politicize intelligence in a way that I think has harmed our nation's diplomacy.
   He sought to transfer two intelligence analysts who disagreed with him on substantive manners. There was such a feeling of fear and intimidation in the department that the secretary of state actually visited with the analysts to give them reassurance. Mr. Bolton has repeatedly attempted to stretch the facts to back his own ideological predispositions.
   In his testimony here, when we had the hearing, he denied that he tried to have analysts punished or to discipline a CIA employee or that he sought retribution against employees for dissenting views. He told us, "I shrugged my shoulders, and I moved on," when his attempts to have them reassigned were rebuffed.
   And yet we have learned from extensive interviews with numerous administration officials he did try to have the analysts removed from their positions, he did seek to punish people for disagreeing with him and he did persist in his efforts for many months after he supposedly made his point and moved on.
   That he was ultimately unsuccessful does not speak for Mr. Bolton. The question is not solely whether the truth is in the results, what it speaks to is the steadiness and determination of those professionals who withstood his demands, who refused to bend to this inordinate pressure that he was applying.
   Given this conduct, when he goes before the U.N. to make a statement about evidence of nuclear weapons production or a terrorist plot or whatever it may be, who's going to believe him, knowing that he repeatedly punished intelligence analysts who delivered contradictory information; knowing that he is the kind of person who as Robert Hutchings, the former chairman of the National Intelligence Council, put it, "took isolated facts and made much more of them to build a case than I thought the intelligence warranted. It was a sort of cherry picking of little factoids and little isolated bits that were drawn out to present the starkest possible case"?
   We need a credible spokesman at the United Nations, and this past conduct on his part casts serious doubt.
   Finally, Mr. Bolton's poor administrative and management skills, in my view, make him unfit to exercise a senior leadership role. The testimony from Carl Ford, assistant secretary of state for intelligence and research, has previously been referred to. He said, "In my experience, throughout my time in the executive branch, I've really never seen someone so abusive to such a subordinate person."
   He said he didn't have anyone else in mind who even comes close to John Bolton in terms of the way that he abuses his power and his authority with little people.
   Larry Wilkerson, who was Secretary Powell's chief of staff, described to the committee staff the kinds of problems he had on a daily basis in dealing with Bolton:
   "Assistant secretaries, principal deputy assistant secretaries, acting assistant secretaries coming into my office and telling me, 'Can I sit down?'
   "'Sure, sit down. What's the problem?'
   "'I've got to leave.'
   "'What's the problem?'
   "'Bolton.'"
   When asked if he got similar complaints about other undersecretaries, he replied, "On one occasion, on one particular individual. The rest were all about Undersecretary Bolton."
   In summarizing his experience with Bolton, Wilkerson stated, "I think he's a lousy leader. And there are 100 to 150 people up there that have to be led. They have to be led well, and they have to be led properly."
   Being ambassador to the United Nations is not just a representational job; it's also a managerial job. There are 125 full-time, permanent State Department employees working there at our mission, alongside of numerous detailees from other agencies and departments. The ambassador has supervisory responsibility over all these people. Most are career civil servants, and they are there to represent the policies of our president and to serve the interests of our nation.
   What are they going to do up there in New York if John Bolton repeats the kind of abusive behavior that led people in the State Department, under incredible duress, to seek the support and counsel of their assistant secretaries and the deputy secretary and the secretary's chief of staff? There will be no one in New York to shield them from the wrath and vindictiveness of John Bolton.
   Mr. Chairman, let me just say, because to some, now it's a favorite pastime to assault the United Nations, but the United Nations has a very important role to play. Skillful U.S. leadership can enhance our national interest in very significant ways. And part of that skillful leadership is to send an ambassador who has the credibility and the wisdom and all of the other talents that are essential to carrying out his responsibilities in an effective manner.
   I think this nominee falls far short of that standard. And that is why I oppose his confirmation.
   And let me just add a word on my respect for those witnesses who came forward. Now, Senator Biden is absolutely right. These people, in effect, volunteered themselves to give what they felt would be an accurate view of Mr. Bolton's behavior, particularly his interpersonal behavior.
   It took a lot of courage, in my view, for people like Mr. Ford, Mr. Wilkerson, Mr. Hutchings, Ambassador Hubbard and others to come forward. I'm concerned that they're going to pay a price for that very brave action. I deeply regret if that should turn out to be the case. I think their motive in coming forward was the national interest of their country.
   In that sense, I think they were true patriots. They had nothing to gain by opposing the nomination. In fact, they have much to lose. They clearly were not ideologues with an ax to grind. In fact, they were very supportive of the policies of the president. But they felt that it was their duty as loyal Americans and as public servants, to tell the truth and to follow their consciences, and I respect that.
   And I want to place that on the record and to thank them for this service to their country.
 
 