SENS. SARBANES, MIKULSKI ANNOUNCE FULL SENATE APPROVAL OF FUNDING FOR OCEAN CITY-ASSATEAGUE ISLAND BEACH REPLENISHMENT EFFORTS
  Sens. Paul S. Sarbanes (D-MD) and Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) announced that the full Senate on July 1 approved $4.9 million in federal funding for beach replenishment efforts in Ocean City and an additional $1.02 million for the Army Corps of Engineers to continue restoring the North End of Assateague Island as part of the Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill for FY 2006. 
   The action by the full Senate, through the efforts of the two Maryland Senators, reverses a Bush Administration decision to not include funding for either of these two major projects in their FY 2006 budget submission.
   "These actions will help to maintain our beaches and more importantly provide hurricane protection for the citizens of Worcester County and the billions of dollars in public and private infrastructure in the area," said Sarbanes. "I am pleased that my Senate colleagues have joined Senator Mikulski and me in reversing the Bush Administration's decision to zero fund these programs and provide the necessary monies to proceed with the beach replenishment projects in Ocean City and Assateague Island."
   "Beach replenishment is about safeguarding lives and protecting communities. Keeping safe our shore communities from hurricanes and flooding has always been one of my top priorities," said Senator Mikulski. "That's why I was so disappointed that the President's budget cut the funding for this important program. I heard the concerns of our citizens and local governments and went to work to restore this critical funding. I am proud to have put the money back in the federal checkbook to do just that."
   "As we begin a predicted very active 2005 hurricane season, we in Ocean City express our deep gratitude on behalf of the eight million visitors and residents for the intelligent leadership of our Democratic Senators," added Ocean City, Maryland Mayor Jim Mathias. "Saving lives and protecting property is the successful accomplishment of this critically important project. Senators Sarbanes and Mikulski continue to provide Ocean City with a safe and secure future."
   In February of this year, Sarbanes and Mikulski wrote to the Department of the Army to express their dismay that the Bush Administration's budget did not include any funding for these projects asserting that it broke long-standing Federal commitments to protect human life and property, as well as vital resources and risked undermining the substantial federal investment of over $50 million already made in the two projects.
   The Ocean City hurricane protection project will require the pumping of approximately 800,000 cubic feet of new sand to help stem erosion of the world famous beach. The north end of Assateague Island also requires funding for additional re-nourishment efforts. Funding will now enable the Army Corps of Engineers to address these issues and make sure that Maryland's barrier islands remain intact.
   The bill approved by the House of Representatives does not include any funding for the two beach replenishment projects. Differences between the House and Senate passed bills must be reconciled before being sent to President Bush for his signature.
   Contact: Jesse Jacobs, 202/224-4524.
 
 