SEN. SARBANES JOINS IN HELPING MARYLAND SMALL BUSINESSES
  Sen. Paul S. Sarbanes (D-MD) joined his colleagues from the Chesapeake Bay region on April 13 in speaking on the Senate floor in support of efforts to increase the number of visas available for temporary summer workers. This issue is of critical importance to many Maryland businesses, particularly in the seafood processing, hotel, restaurant, amusement and tourism industries, who rely on temporary summer employees from around the world to help during their busy summer season. 
   Sarbanes statement on the Senate floor to his colleagues follows:
   "I commend my colleague from Maryland for a very innovative and carefully reasoned response to a crisis situation. This is a clear example of legislative craftsmanship that addresses the issue and does it in a way that does not open up a lot of unintended consequences or other possibilities. It does not constitute any major restructuring of the immigration laws or anything of that sort. This is really an effort in a very focused, almost laser-like way, to address this specific problem. 
   "The problem is the following: Under the administrative set up, an employer cannot seek an H-2B visa until within 120 days of when it would be used or exercised. That means that people who need summer employees cannot come in right at the beginning of the year to seek the H-2B visas. What happened, of course, this year is people in the earlier part of the year - the winter people in a sense - came in, and used up all of the 66,000 visas that were available so people who have relied on this program over the years to carry out their businesses were shut out altogether. Of course, that raises very dire prospects for the operation of these small businesses all across the country. 
   "We have underscored the crisis confronting the seafood business in Maryland and Virginia, but innkeepers in Maine, hotel operators in Florida, and businesses all across the country confront similar problems with respect to being able to bring in these H-2B visa workers. 
   "This amendment maintains all the requirements that existed previously. In other words, the employers must still demonstrate they have sought to find American workers for these jobs. That is a current requirement. That is maintained in this amendment. 
   "These employers, some of them, have made extraordinary efforts to do that, visiting college campuses, attending job fairs, exploring every possible way they can find workers. Many have gone well beyond what I think has been previously required in terms of meeting that requirement. But, they have not been able to find the workers. They need these H-2B workers. 
   "What my colleague, Senator Mikulski, has done - I think in a very measured way - is, if you previously brought in an H-2B worker and that worker has then gone back at the end of the limited time during which they were permitted to come into the country to do the job, you can, despite the fact we have now bumped up against the ceiling, bring that worker or workers that helped you meet your employment situation back in. No new worker would come into the country under this provision who had not been here before as part of this H-2B program. So, in effect, you are saying to someone: Look, you have come for the last 2 or 3 years as part of this program, so it is going to be available to you to come again. And you say to the employer seeking to bring them, you can bring back that workforce in order to meet your work situation. 
   "In that sense, it is not an expansion of the general availability of the program. You are not broadening who can partake of it. You must have previously participated in the program in order to be able to come in again. I think that is a very innovative way to address the situation. It will enable these small businesses to function. 
   "It is important to recognize that it is not the functioning of the particular business involved, but it is the functioning of other businesses, dependent upon the particular business that needs these workers, that will be affected most. If you cannot do the processing of the seafood, then the people down the line who depend on getting that seafood in order to do their business are going to be adversely affected as well. So there is a ripple effect that goes out through the economy which raises the threat of having a substantial economic impact, at least in some areas of the country. 
   "I also want to underscore the amendment, as I understand it maintains all of the existing penalties that would apply to an employer who might misrepresent any statement on their H-2B petition. In other words, employers would still be held responsible in terms of how they conducted their effort. As I mentioned earlier, they are required to go through all of the necessary measures to ensure they have not been able to find available, qualified U.S. citizens to fill these jobs before they file an H-2B visa application. 
   "This amendment is limited in time. It is limited in scope, but it would address the current crisis situation. It might not totally address it, but we are confident it would do so sufficiently to enable most, if not all, of these businesses to carry out their functions. 
   "I think it does not raise larger questions and, therefore, because it has been very carefully developed, I think it constitutes an appropriate response to the situation we are now confronting. I urge my colleagues to support this amendment. It does the job. It does it in a very direct and focused way, and it will enable us to work through these problems while we await general revisions of the immigration laws. 
   "This doesn't open up that particular path which I know would concern some Members of this body. 
   "I again commend my colleague for very carefully working out an amendment. I know how much he has consulted with people in the administration and colleagues here in the Senate. I very much hope this body will adopt this amendment."
   Contact: Jesse Jacobs, 202/224-4524.  
 
 