SEN. SARBANES COMMENTS ON SENATE BUDGET RESOLUTION FOR FISCAL YEAR 2006
  Statement of Sen. Paul S. Sarbanes (D-MD)
  Senate Budget Resolution For FY 2006
   The budget resolution is the single most important document we deal with in the Congress. The budget contains thousands of decisions that are critical to our national life, and those decisions reflect our priorities as a nation-both those of the President who submits a budget and those of the Congress that passes a budget.  
   Are we more concerned about tax cuts for the wealthy or strengthening Social Security? Are we more concerned with tax cuts for the wealthy or funding important safety, housing, community development, education, and health needs? Are we more concerned with giving tax cuts than holding down the deficit? 
   All of those are decisions that are involved in making the budget. In its composite, the budget is a very important macroeconomic document, because it sets the fiscal path for dealing with the overall economy. Will the budget fund the programs that create jobs and strengthen our economy? Will the budget create long-run structural deficits? What will be the impact of those long-run structural deficits on our economic performance? Will the budget move us toward full employment or away from it? 
   Now, it is asserted that we have to have these very substantial cuts in a number of important domestic programs because we have this large deficit and we have to address the large deficit. On the road to progress, we need to make investments in health, education, and protecting the environment. But we are told, no, no, we have this big deficit and therefore we cannot do these things. 
   Where did that big deficit come from? That is the question that needs to be asked, because once you go behind where the big deficit came from, you get a picture of what the priorities are and what the thinking is of those who have established this budget framework. 
   When President Bush came into office in 2001, he inherited a projected $5.6 trillion surplus over the next 10-year period-a $5.6 trillion surplus. In his first budget proposal, which included an excessive tax cut primarily for those at the top of the income and wealth scale, he said, "We can proceed with tax relief without fear of budget deficits." 
   The following year, with the budget already in deficit, the President advocated for another tax cut while promising that, "Our budget will run a deficit that will be small and short term."' In fact, the President's budget that year stated, "deficits would be so short term that by today the Government would be back in surplus." How wrong he was. 
   The President's Office of Management and Budget (OMB) is projecting a deficit this year of $427 billion. Instead of the $5.6 trillion 10-year surplus projected out when the President took office, when you factor in some of the costs we know are coming, such as the continuing cost of the war in Iraq, the cost of reforming the alternative minimum tax, the cost of some of the President's proposals, including making the tax cuts permanent, and the continuing defense buildup, the projections now are for a deficit over the same period of $3.7 trillion, instead of a $5.6 trillion surplus. 
   Think of that. We have gone from projecting a $5.6 trillion surplus in 2001, to projecting a $3.7 trillion deficit. That is a deterioration in our fiscal position of over $9 trillion-$9.3 trillion, to be specific. 
   As a consequence, the Federal debt has skyrocketed. Back in January 2001, the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) was projecting that our net debt to the public would decline to $36 billion by 2008. Now the CBO is projecting that publicly held debt will rise to $5.5 trillion in 2008. Of course, with increased debt comes an increased interest payment. Net interest payments on our debt are expected to consume more than $1 trillion over the next 5 years, leaving us less able to invest in other priorities.
   There are a number of reasons for this fiscal reversal. Spending to recover from the attacks of September 11 and to pay for operations in Iraq and Afghanistan has played a part in creating these deficits. But the deficits are not primarily the result of increased spending by the Congress. By far, the greatest factor contributing to the return of deficits is on the revenue side. 
   Seventy-four percent of the change from the surplus in 2000 to the projected deficit in 2005 stems from revenue loss, of which the President's tax cuts were a major part. Rather than saving the budget surplus he inherited, thereby helping us to meet our long-term obligations, such as Social Security, the President chose to risk our fiscal future through excessive tax cuts targeted to those who need them the least. Make no mistake about it, this is the priority that this Administration set and it continues to follow. Now we are living with the consequences of that choice-deficits and debt as far as the eye can see. 
   These massive and sustained deficits are not simply numbers on paper. They have real consequences in terms of the United States' future economic strength. The structural deficits that are built into this budget will be extremely harmful to the economy as we move ahead. They promise to raise interest rates, reduce economic growth, decrease the number of jobs, and increase our vulnerability to sudden economic crisis.
   Addressing these deficits becomes even more critical when you consider our international position. As recently as the early 1980s, the United States was a creditor nation. Other countries owed us. Today the U.S. is the world's largest debtor nation. Our external debt in 2003 was $2.4 trillion. Last year we ran a trade deficit in excess of $600 billion, and once that gets included in the figures, we expect our external debt to be over $3 trillion. This sharp deterioration is proceeding as we continue to run enormous trade and current account deficits. Our current account deficit is projected to reach a record high in 2005. 
   There was a story just this weekend in the newspaper, "Trade Gap Widens on Record Imports. Deficit at Record Level. Trade Gap Expands. The U.S. trade deficit widened in January to $58 billion"-for 1 month-"the second highest monthly gap on record." 
   We were warned by the President of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York not long ago about this situation. Let me read what he said: 
   "The size and concentration of external imbalances in the system are at an unprecedented scale, between 5 to 6 percent of GDP in the case of the U.S. current account deficit. The counterpart of this deficit is a large inflow of capital from the world's private savers and foreign central banks. The expected trajectory for this imbalance produces a dramatic deterioration in our net international position and cannot be sustained indefinitely." 
   He concluded: 
   "What's new is that we are significantly more dependent today on the confidence of the rest of the world in U.S. economic policy for the safety and stability of our financial markets." 
   We are losing our financial independence and running the risk of a crisis of confidence in the dollar. 
   Last summer, the Financial Times in an editorial warned: 
   "Like Tennessee Williams' ill-fated character Blanche Dubois, the United States has long been dependent on the kindness of strangers. Foreigners' hitherto insatiable appetite for dollar assets is what has enabled the U.S. to keep running on credit for so long. Like Ms. Dubois' dysfunctional relationships, this one is symbiotic but potentially hazardous." 
   I am very frank to say that I believe this budget is seriously out of line with the needs of America's families. The basic thrust of the President's budget proposal is that we should allow tax cuts for very wealthy people to continue, but programs that help middle-class Americans should be cut and the deficit continue to be a major problem. 
   Let me give a couple of examples to dramatize this contrast in priorities. In 2006, the President's tax cuts are scheduled to give $32 billion to those making over $1 million a year. In other words, all the people making over $1 million a year, who are a very small percentage of our population, will get $32 billion in tax cuts. 
   What might we be able to do with some of this money that is going for tax cuts for wealthy people? We could bring our first responders back up to the budget baseline with $1.6 billion, or 5 percent of this excessive tax cut. We know the needs and challenges faced by those on the front lines of our efforts to provide greater security to communities around the country. We know they need help. Another $1.9 billion would restore full funding for the Community Development Block Grant Program, a program very important to State and local governments, to carry forward the renewal of their communities; that would be 6 percent of the $32 billion tax cut that will go to the millionaires. We could restore funding for the HOPE VI program at a cost of $500 million. HOPE VI has helped eliminate the worst public housing and replaced it with home ownership and has transformed the downtown areas of many cities in the country. 
   I could go on with these examples. The fact is, for a portion of that excessive tax cut we could restore many of these programs, and the other portion could be used to bring down the deficit; in other words, we could have a more balanced fiscal policy, one that responds to the needs of our country and that lays the basis for our long-term strength instead of taking us deeper into the hole with these twin deficits, our internal budget deficit and our external trade and current account deficit, which has taken the United States from being a creditor nation-in other words, others owed us-to where we are now the largest debtor nation in the world. 
   Those are the choices that are being made in this budget. We are being told constantly that we have a deficit; we need to address the deficit. Yet this budget provides $70 billion more in tax cuts for wealthy people, for people who, under any analysis of the case, are not in need of a tax cut. The working people could use a tax cut, but that is not where the tax cut goes. At the same time, when we talk about the programs that are being cut for which there is such desperate need, we are told that we have to do that because we have this deficit problem. 
   If we have this deficit problem, why do we have to do the tax cuts that are in this budget resolution? What is the rationale for doing that? It is a matter of priorities. Very simply, those who have put this resolution together place a greater premium on further tax cuts for those who have already, in my judgment, received excessive tax cuts, than they do in holding down the deficit or funding some of these very important programs that we need for our people. 
   So the basic question as we move ahead is, what are our priorities as a nation? How should we invest our resources to get the best outcome in the future? I do not believe that the priorities represented in this budget reflect the right choices for America, and I urge my colleagues to vote to reject this budget resolution.
 
 