SEN. SARBANES ISSUES STATEMENT ON COMMUNITY COLLEGES, HIGHER EDUCATION ISSUES
  Statement of Senator Paul S. Sarbanes (D-Md) at Maryland Congressional Delegation Meeting "Overview of Higher Education Issues From the Community College Perspective" 
   We are pleased to welcome the distinguished Presidents and Trustees of our Maryland community colleges to Washington.
   Our delegation meets periodically to review the effect of federal legislation and appropriations on our State's institutions of higher education. Last year, when we met with this group, we had a very informative conversation about the state of our community colleges and the impact of federal legislation upon them. 
   With the Higher Education Act (HEA) still in need of reauthorization, we have this opportunity to once again meet with our State's schools and discuss priorities. 
   As I noted in the past, Community Colleges are the gateway to higher education for about two-thirds of Maryland's high school graduates. 
   They train new workers; 
   They provide continuing education classes so that older employees can hone their skills or develop new skills to advance in their careers;
   They allow community members the opportunity to learn a new language or pursue a new career; and
   They add about 125,000 jobs to the Maryland economy each year.
   Community Colleges are one of the best resources Maryland has for developing the workforce it needs to become a national economic leader.
   The reauthorization of the Higher Education Act - particularly its financial aid, vocational education, and workforce investment act programs - is of great importance in ensuring the continued success of Maryland's Community Colleges.
   For each of the last seven years, the number of students entering community college has increased. That trend is expected to continue, with the largest high school class in Maryland history scheduled to graduate in 2008. Community colleges are projecting that enrollment will increase 20 to 31 percent in the next decade.
   As we discuss reauthorizing Higher Education Act, we need to give serious attention to our current financial assistance programs as well as to things our schools can do to ensure that rising costs do not put higher education out of reach for all Marylanders.
   We look forward to hearing your thoughts and concerns on the reauthorization process and other matters of importance to you.
 
 