SEN. SARBANES COMMENTS ON NOMINATION OF NEW CHAIRMAN OF FEDERAL RESERVE
 Statement of Sen. Paul S. Sarbanes (D-MD) 
  Committee On Banking, Housing, And Urban Affairs 
  United States Senate
   Nomination of Alan Greenspan as Chairman of The Federal Reserve
   I am pleased to welcome Chairman Greenspan before the Banking Committee this morning to review his nomination to serve another term as Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. 
   Let me start by congratulating Chairman Greenspan on his nomination to a fifth term as Chairman of the Federal Reserve Board. If confirmed, as I fully expect he will be, Chairman Greenspan would join William McChesney Martin as the only Fed Chairmen to be confirmed for five terms. In terms of longevity of service, he is currently second only to Chairman Martin.
   Over the years I have both agreed and disagreed with Chairman Greenspan over the conduct of monetary and fiscal policy. That is what democracy is all about, as I understand it. I believe the exceptional partnership Chairman Greenspan formed with then Secretary of the Treasury Robert Rubin during the 1990s led to the conduct of fiscal and monetary policies which complemented one another and which helped achieve high growth and employment with low inflation and served this country very well.
   As I look back, I think with respect to monetary policy, my sharpest disagreement with Chairman Greenspan was probably in 1994 when the Fed raised rates in a preemptive manner that I thought was not warranted by inflationary pressures. In regard to fiscal policy, my strongest disagreement with Chairman Greenspan came in the beginning of 2001, when we were told the debt was being paid down at such a rapid rate that we had to slow the trajectory, otherwise we would pay it off too quickly. That took the lid off the punch bowl as far as tax cuts were concerned. Of course we are now experiencing very large deficits and they are projected way out into the future.
   I do want to underscore the agreement I've had with the Chairman and the Fed on issues of bank regulation, particularly in regard to the need for vigorous holding company supervision and in maintaining the separation of banking and commerce.
   Let me say even when I found myself disagreeing with Chairman Greenspan, I have always enjoyed my public exchanges with him. They have always been focused on the substance of the issues, and I have found them thought provoking and informative. Chairman Greenspan has carried out the responsibilities of his office with great skill and dedication, and has sustained the tradition of outstanding economic statesmanship provided by such former Fed Chairmen as Marriner Eccles, William McChesney Martin, Arthur Burns, and Paul Volcker.
   I would like to take a moment to commend Chairman Greenspan for what I believe will be an important legacy of his chairmanship of the Federal Reserve, and that is the movement by the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) of the Fed to be more open and transparent in its conduct of monetary policy. That movement began in November 1993, when the Federal Reserve decided to release all historic transcripts of meetings of the FOMC, and the decision in January 1995 to release transcripts of FOMC meetings going forward with a 5-year lag.
   Perhaps most significantly, in February 1994 the Federal Reserve decided that changes in monetary policy by the FOMC would be accompanied by an immediate public announcement of a change with an explanation of the reason for the change. That was followed by the decision in January 2000 to release an announcement after every meeting of the FOMC, whether or not a change in monetary policy was made, with a brief statement assessing the balance of the risks. Most recently, they have added the recorded votes of the individual members of the FOMC on the conduct of monetary policy.
   I also should mention that in 2000, the Congress, with the support of the Federal Reserve, amended the Federal Reserve Act to make the Federal Reserve Chairman's testimony on the semi-annual monetary policy report a statutory requirement. Till then, the testimony was customary, but not required by law.
   For those of us who have followed the conduct of monetary policy by the FOMC over the years and advocated greater transparency in its decision-making, steps taken during the Chairman's tenure were meaningful and significant changes, which have made the deliberations more transparent, and the members of the FOMC more accountable for the conduct of their responsibilities. Chairman Greenspan deserves a great deal of credit for these positive changes.
   It has also been my perception that members of the FOMC, both Fed Governors and Federal Reserve Bank President's have become more open in their public discussions of the work of the FOMC and have made greater efforts to explain their deliberations to the public. I believe the Fed has also developed a greater appreciation of how important communication to the public and to the markets is to the conduct of monetary policy. I regard these as very positive developments with lasting consequences.
   Let me note, Mr. Chairman, that while this nomination is for a four-year term as Chairman, Chairman Greenspan has to end his service as a member of the Board of Governor's on January 31, 2006, because of the limitation on the length of the term as Governor can serve.
   That would help to get the Chairmanship and the Presidential elections back on what I regard as a more preferable track would be for a new President to be able to appoint a Chairman about a year after he came into office. So you would have some removal from the political process, but not a total exception to it. And I think that is a better synchronization on which to have the process work.
   But again, I close by congratulating Chairman Greenspan on this nomination to a fifth term as Chairman of the Federal Reserve Board. I look forward to his testimony this morning, and I look forward to supporting you as you move through this nomination process.
 
 