MARYLAND CONGRESSIONAL DELEGATION BRIEFED ON HIGHER EDUCATION ISSUES
  The Maryland Congressional delegation today hosted educational leaders from across the entire State of Maryland to discuss issues relating to higher education on the federal level. Sen. Paul S. Sarbanes, who serves as the Chair of the Maryland Congressional delegation, joined in welcoming the educational leaders to the United States Capitol. His remarks follow: 
   We are pleased to welcome our distinguished Presidents from the University System of Maryland, University of Maryland College Park, Morgan State University, St. Mary's College, Johns Hopkins University, Loyola College, the College of Notre Dame, Goucher College, and the Maryland Independent College and University Association. Thank you all for joining us today to discuss the reauthorization of the Higher Education Act.
   Our delegation has met periodically over the years to review the effect of Federal legislation and appropriations on our State's institutions of higher education. 
   With the Higher Education Act (HEA) authorization expiring at the end of this year, we are also presented with an opportunity to once again consult with our State's schools and discuss priorities as they pertain to the HEA. Today we will hear from representatives of Maryland's 4-year public and private institutions.
   Maryland's Colleges and Universities enroll almost half of the State's 18 to 24 year olds. They are the gateway to a better life and higher paying jobs for much of the State's population. And, they are the engines that drive our State economy.
   * In 2000 alone, Maryland's research universities earned 140 patents and filed 457 patent applications. Thirteen new companies were formed based on the Universities' discoveries and inventions.
   Our institutions of higher learning have also made Maryland's one of most educated populations in the world:
   * Maryland leads the nation in the number of adults with bachelor's degrees or higher.
   * It ranks first in the nation for PhD graduates per year in biological and agricultural sciences and health sciences.
   In short, Maryland's Colleges and Universities provide our state with a foundation for success and quality of life by enhancing the economic, health, and cultural well-being of all Marylanders.
   The reauthorization of the Higher Education Act - particularly its student and institution financial assistance and teacher preparation provisions - is critically important to ensuring the continued strength of Maryland's Colleges and Universities.
   We look forward to hearing your thoughts and concerns on the reauthorization process and other matters of concern to you and your campuses.
   Contact: Jesse Jacobs, 202/224 4524, http://sarbanes.senate.gov.
 
 