SENS. SARBANES, MIKULSKI ANNOUNCE OVER $750,000 IN FEDERAL FUNDING FOR UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND EASTERN SHORE
  Sens. Paul S. Sarbanes (D-MD) and Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) announced today that the University of Maryland Eastern Shore (UMES) has been awarded federal grants for three separate projects totaling $756,500.  
   The following projects are to receive funding:
   * The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) has issued a $340,000 grant through the Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCU) Program to develop, construct and maintain an outdoor athletic center for children of low-income families from the Town of Princess Anne. Baseball, soccer, volleyball and basketball fields and courts will be created on a 4 ? acre parcel of land that was formerly used as a clam factory and recently donated to the town. All existing buildings will be demolished and debris removed, the site will be graded and landscaped and new parking, restroom and office facilities will be built in addition to the athletic fields;
   * The U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) has awarded the University a Rural Cooperative Development grant totaling $296,500. The funding will be used to develop and enhance economic development in the underserved and economically distressed rural areas on the Eastern Shore through the Co-Options project, a program which promotes cooperatives as an organizational structure for economic growth; and 
   * The Economic Development Administration will provide $100,000 in funding to allow the campus University Center to operate for another 12 months. The Center strives to strengthen and diversify the economy of rural counties on the Eastern Shore by providing technical and applied research assistance to businesses, non-profits and local governments. 
   "Our Nation's historically black colleges and universities have played a vital role in not only providing students with an exceptional education, but also reaching out to the communities in which they exist," said Sarbanes. "These federal grants will help further the mission of UMES and continue to strengthen and enhance the economic ties between the university and communities throughout the Eastern Shore." 
   "Education is the opportunity ladder of this nation, and higher education is a critical rung on that ladder," said Senator Mikulski. "That's why I'm so proud that Historically Black Colleges and Universities like the University of Maryland Eastern Shore are playing a critical role in making sure all our children have a chance to succeed. These grants are a federal investment in extending opportunities to UMES students and the Eastern Shore community."
   "I am deeply grateful to the UMES professors who penned the grants and to Senators Paul Sarbanes and Barbara Mikulski for making the Eastern Shore region a priority," said Dr. Thelma B. Thompson, President of the University of Maryland Eastern Shore. "These grants indicate that the University of Maryland Eastern Shore is a vibrant partner with its community and benefits accrue to all of us."
   The HBCU Program assists Historically Black Colleges and Universities expand their role and effectiveness in addressing community development needs in their localities, including neighborhood revitalization and housing and economic development.
   Contact: Jesse Jacobs and Andrew Burkowske, 202/224-4524.
 
 