SEN. SARBANES LAUDS CYPRUS ENTRY INTO EUROPEAN UNION
  Sen. Paul S. Sarbanes (D-MD) issued the following statement on the entry of the Republic of Cyprus into the European Union:
   "The entry of the Republic of Cyprus into the European Union marks an important turning-point. By its steady economic growth and its commitment to vigorous democratic institutions, the Republic of Cyprus has earned full membership in the European community of nations, and will now take its rightful place. 
   "Cyprus will be a major asset to the EU. Its people are hard working, well-educated and highly productive. Its economy and standards of living are strong - in terms of GDP per capita, Cyprus stands on the front lines of the ten new EU members. It carries the EU's core economic and political principles to the Eastern Mediterranean, at the same time providing significant access and opportunities in the region to other EU member states.
   "Since the Turkish occupation began three decades ago I have contributed my best efforts to the continuing search for a just settlement that would end the painful division of the island with the support of Greek Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots alike. We have not yet reached that point. In a full and free referendum, the people of Cyprus by a very strong majority vote rejected the U.N.-sponsored settlement plan that had been put before them. 
   "It is incumbent on the international community to accept and respect that decision, which reflected the sentiments of the voters. The criticism expressed by some EU leaders and some elements within our own government is both unwarranted and counter-productive. The vote reflected widespread and deep concern in the Greek Cypriot community over the deficiencies in the plan's provisions. It is a setback but not a defeat where a settlement is concerned, and I am hopeful that the two communities on Cyprus will build on the progress achieved in recent years and seek new avenues of mutually beneficial cooperation."
   Contact: Jesse Jacobs, 202/224-4524, http://sarbanes.senate.gov.
 
 