SEN. SARBANES SPEAKS AT COMMITTEE ON BANKING, HOUSING, AND URBAN AFFAIRS HEARING
  Statement of Sen. Paul S. Sarbanes (D-MD) Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs Hearing on "A Review of the GAO Report on the Sale of Financial Products to Military Personnel" 
   Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for calling this hearing so that the Committee can hear the report of the Government Accountability Office on sales of financial products to members of our armed forces. Regrettably, abuses in this area have been widely reported. The New York Times published a series of articles on this subject last year. In September 2004, you and I asked GAO to conduct a study of these problems, and we will hear their analysis and comments by relevant regulators here this morning. I would also like to recognize the efforts of Senator Enzi on this issue. He has introduced legislation on the subject with Senators Clinton, Schumer, Hagel, and others.
   In their report GAO has found that:
   "Large numbers of military service members are being targeted by a few firms offering [life insurance] products that provide limited benefits unless held for long periods, which most military purchasers were failing to do." 
   In fact, at least some of the companies understood, and apparently counted on, the fact that the target group for the life insurance sales was enlisted personnel, who have the highest level of turnover and would not hold the policies for long periods of time.
   GAO also found that:
   "Military members were ... being widely marketed a securities product - the contractual [mutual fund] plan - that has largely disappeared from the civilian market- place . . . [and which] have been periodically involved in sales scandals for decades." It reported that the marketing materials used were misleading and "misrepresented the advantages of these plans compared to other investments."
   I think it should be a matter of very deep concern that these are not new problems. 
   For example, The New York Times has reported that:
   * The Army Times described similar issues in earlier articles; 
   * Some military officials sought to alert Pentagon officials to the problems in a 1997 report; 
   * A 1998 report of the Pentagon's Inspector General, which looked into life ; insurance sales on 11 randomly-selected military bases, found: misleading sales presentations, presentations by unauthorized personnel, presentations to captive audiences, soliciting during duty hours and soliciting in the barracks"; and 
   * A May 2000 Pentagon-ordered study by the former Chief Judge of the Army's Court of Criminal Appeals found that DOD policies "have been routinely violated" in this area for the last 30 years.
   I might also note that the SEC many years ago recommended banning the sale of the mutual fund contractual plans altogether.
   Furthermore, Mr. Chairman, there are also widespread abuses in the payday lending area directed specifically at our military personnel.
   There are approximately 1.4 million Active Duty personnel and 1.2 million members of the Ready Reserve in our armed forces. I am very concerned that any insurance company or agent or stock broker or dealer would sell inappropriate financial products to our servicemen and women. I am very concerned that any lender would require economically abusive terms in loans to military personnel.
   I have complete respect for the work of our military personnel. And it seems to me that one of the minimal things we could do to show that respect is to move aggressively against these kinds of practices which every study has found to be abusive. I want to make very clear that most of the reputable firms do not engage in this sort of activity. But there are enough that do it in such abusive terms that is casts a dark cloud over the entire economic sector.
 
 