SEN. SARBANES ISSUES STATEMENT IN OPPOSITION TO INCREASING FEDERAL DEBT LIMIT
  I am deeply troubled by the pending legislation, which would raise the federal debt limit by $800 billion. The fact that we are considering this legislation illustrates how deeply the policies of this Administration have plunged us into deficits and debt, and yet, the President continues to push for more of the same: tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans, which are not paid for and which will continue to run up deficits and debt as far as the eye can see. I am very concerned that if the President continues to pursue this reckless fiscal policy, our Nation's long-term economic strength will be seriously compromised.
   Despite the fact that the President signed into law the largest debt limit increase in our country's history only eighteen months ago, the Treasury Department has now informed us that it will need to borrow even more to keep the government functioning. The legislation we are considering today would allow federal debt to grow to $8.184 trillion, truly a staggering sum.  
   When President Bush took office, he promised that his fiscal policies would include "maximum possible debt retirement." At that time, the Congressional Budget Office was projecting that our net debt to the public would decline to $36 billion by 2008, when this President leaves office. Now, instead of achieving "maximum possible debt retirement," the President is asking for historically high debt increases. In fact, the CBO is now projecting that publicly-held debt will rise to $5.6 trillion in 2008 - almost 40 percent of our GDP! Gross Federal debt, which includes our commitments to Social Security and Medicare, will be almost $10 trillion by the time this President leaves office. 
   These figures demonstrate how seriously our economic situation has deteriorated under this Administration. Let me just emphasize that point with one further example. When the president took office, he inherited a 10-year surplus estimated at $5.6 trillion. Now, when you factor in some of the costs we know are coming, such as the continuing costs of the war in Iraq and the cost of reforming the alternative minimum tax, plus the cost of some of the President's proposals, such as making his tax cuts permanent and continuing his defense buildup, the projections are for a $3.5 trillion deficit over that same period, a reversal of $9.1 trillion. That is a seismic shift in our position.
   Much of this shift is a direct result of the fiscal policies pursued by the President during his first term. For example, consider this year's budget deficit. When President Bush took office, the CBO was projecting a surplus for 2004 of $397 billion. Instead, we have a deficit this year of $413 billion - a shift of $810 billion. More than one-third - 37 percent - of this reversal is directly attributable to the tax cuts this President has enacted, tax cuts that primarily benefited the wealthiest Americans. And the President is seeking to increase our debt burden by permanently extending many of these tax cuts, utterly ignoring the fact that these massive tax cuts for the rich have led to budget deficits so large that they could jeopardize our future economic strength. 
   In part, my concern for our economic future stems from a change in the United States' international economic position. Two decades ago, the United States was a creditor nation internationally, by about 10 percent of our GDP. Now, because of the deterioration of our position over those intervening two decades, we are a debtor nation, to the tune of about 22% percent of our GDP. Our status as a debtor nation has worsened considerably since President Bush took office: between January 2001 and July 2004, foreign holdings of U.S. Treasury debt increased by 79%. The large budget deficits that have appeared during the last four years have made us inordinately dependent on the influx of capital from abroad in order to sustain ourselves.
   What will happen to the United States if foreign buyers of our debt decide to make their investments elsewhere? As the Washington Post explained in an article on October 19, 2004:
   "Foreign governments and individuals hold about half of the $3.7 trillion in outstanding U.S. Treasury bonds, for example, and the government has been heavily dependent on continued overseas bond purchases to finance the roughly $1 billion a day it has to borrow to pay its bills. Foreign lending and investment are also needed to finance the country's roughly $50 billion monthly trade deficit, while foreign capital has been a key prop to U.S. stock prices. A turn in overseas attitudes toward the United States could ripple deeply through the economy, depressing the market, raising interest rates and pushing down the value of the dollar."
   There are already signs that this is beginning to happen. The Treasury Department reported in October that net monthly capital flow from the rest of the world into the United States fell in August, for the sixth time this year. As reported last week by the Wall Street Journal,
   "Since Election Day, the dollar has fallen 1.4% to an all-time low against the euro. . . . The catalyst for its most recent decline was President George W. Bush's re-election last Tuesday. Investors perceive his policies as likely to aggravate the steep U.S. budget deficit."
   What is more, if it were not for the currency manipulation that many of our Asian trading partners are engaged in, the dollar would be significantly lower than it already is against those currencies as well. If this trend continues, the United States could be in for a period of significant economic contraction. 
   As I said eighteen months ago, during the debate on the last debt limit increase, the United States' international financial position reminds me of Tennessee Williams's Blanche DuBois in "A Streetcar Named Desire," who said: "I have always depended on the kindness of strangers." That is what has happened to the United States in the international economic scene. We have deteriorated into a debtor status so that we are now dependent upon the kindness of strangers. That is not where the world's leading power should find itself.
   This dramatic change in our economic situation comes at a time when the United States is facing a demographic tidal wave as the baby boom generation approaches retirement. When President Bush first took office, that retirement was almost a decade away. But time has run out. The first of the baby boomers will begin to retire in 2008, on this President's watch. Unfortunately, rather than prepare for the obligations we know are coming, this President has squandered every opportunity to save for the future. 
   Moreover, his policy of deficit-financed tax cuts makes us less able to make needed investments today. Every increase in the government's debt means we are siphoning off resources that could be used for other purposes simply to pay the interest on that debt. Net interest payments on our debt are expected to consume more than $1 trillion over the next five years. Instead of making investments in education, in health care, in transportation, we are paying billions of dollars in interest costs that would not have existed in the absence of the reckless fiscal policy of the last four years.
   Not only do these policies jeopardize our current and future economic strength, they place a tremendous burden on our children and grandchildren who will have to pay off this debt. By cutting taxes for the wealthiest, the President is really raising taxes on everyone, including our children and grandchildren, by leaving them with the responsibility for paying off this enormous debt. 
   It is unfortunate that this Administration has demonstrated such a single-minded focus on cutting taxes, regardless of the very serious change in our economic situation and our country's current and future needs. The fact that the President is calling for still more tax cuts at the same time the Congress is being asked to add $800 billion to the Federal debt ceiling is beyond reckless - it places in jeopardy our future economic strength and the economic security of all Americans.
 
 