SEN. SARBANES JOINS IN SPONSORING RESOLUTION URGING BUSH ADMINISTRATION TO TAKE ACTION ON RECORD-BREAKING GAS PRICES
  With gasoline prices reaching record-breaking levels just as the busy summer travel season begins, Sen. Paul S. Sarbanes (D-MD) today joined with several of his Senate colleagues in introducing a Senate resolution urging the Bush Administration to take more decisive actions both at home and abroad to curb the escalating gasoline prices nationwide. According to the most recent reports, gas prices are expected to hit a national average of more than $2 per gallon within the next few weeks. 
   "Skyrocketing oil and gas prices are starting to dramatically impact our Nation's hard-working families," said Sarbanes. "With the beginning of the summer vacation season, many families are being forced to think twice about the distance and duration of their annual family getaways. The highly touted Bush tax rebate is now being consumed at the pump by these almost daily increases in gasoline prices. That is why I have joined with my colleagues in urging the Bush Administration to take actions to help halt these spiraling gas prices."
   Sarbanes today joined in sponsoring a Senate resolution introduced by Senator Chuck Schumer (D-NY) that would call on President Bush to suspend deliveries of oil to the Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR) and release 1 million barrels of oil per day from the SPR for 30 days to increase the supply of oil in the market place. The Bush Administration's policy has been to add 170,000 barrels of oil a day to the SPR, even though there is currently more than 660 million barrels of oil in reserve, more than 90% of its overall capacity. 
   In addition, the resolution calls on the President to enter into discussions with the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) in the hopes of immediately increasing oil production. On March 30, Sarbanes joined 23 of his colleagues in a letter to the Bush Administration asking them to urge the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) not to cut oil production by 1 million barrels per day to help ease U.S. gasoline prices. "We are concerned that OPEC's control of global oil prices will continue to directly affect America's economic well-being unless the Administration takes an active and aggressive role in pressuring OPEC to increase production," the Senators wrote at the time.
   Unfortunately, the OPEC Ministers agreed to cut oil production by 4% as they had initially planned, which many believe will force oil prices even higher. Senators expressed disappointment that Bush Administration officials did not talk with OPEC officials sooner to discuss the importance of maintaining current oil production levels.
   Contact: Jesse Jacobs and Andrew Burkowske, 202/224-4524, http://sarbanes.senate.gov.
 
 