SEN. SARBANES ISSUES STATEMENT ON 'FUTURE OF NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM'
  STATEMENT OF SENATOR PAUL SARBANES (D-MD)
  "THE FUTURE OF THE NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM"
  Senate Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs Committee
   I want to thank Chairman Shelby for holding this important hearing on the National Flood Insurance Program, which currently insures over 4.7 million properties in the United States.  
   Regrettably, I have had experience dealing with FEMA and the National Flood Insurance Program over the past two years, and given these interactions, I am very deeply concerned about FEMA's ability to handle not only flood insurance claims, but the other needs of the people affected by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. Over two years ago, Hurricane Isabel struck the East Coast, wreaking havoc in the lives of thousands. FEMA was clearly overwhelmed then, let alone now. 
   Many of my constituents reported having problems settling their flood insurance claims, and in fact some are now suing FEMA over their flood insurance settlements. In addition, almost 50 Maryland families remain in FEMA trailers. These are not the conditions people should have to suffer through after losing their homes and possessions. 
   These were problems experienced after Hurricane Isabel, a much smaller event than the ones FEMA is currently dealing with, where the estimates are that a million people have been displaced. FEMA estimates that over 200,000 flood claims will be filed. 
   I called on the President to provide housing assistance to families through HUD and this nation's housing delivery system. I don't think FEMA can deliver 18 months of housing assistance for hundreds and thousands of people. Putting this responsibility on FEMA, an agency already under strain, is a recipe for disaster, as we can see from the news reports every day.
   I am also concerned about the handling of flood claims, especially since FEMA has not implemented many of the critical reforms Congress passed in response to the problems after Hurricane Isabel. We held hearings, Senator Bunning crafted legislation and FEMA has not put the provisions of that legislation into place. Almost a year since the statutory deadline FEMA has not adopted minimum education and training requirements for insurance agencies, something Congress found was specifically necessary to ensure consumers receive accurate information about flood insurance and their policies. 
   In addition, while FEMA has finally published the required claims handbook, a critical element of this handbook and the claims process is missing. The Committee found after Hurricane Isabel struck over two years ago, that flood victims had no adequate means to make complaints or appeal decisions. I am dismayed to learn that there is still no formal appeals process for holders of flood insurance policies. It has not been formalized within the statutory time frame and while FEMA has now issued the handbook it does not contain any appeals process. 
   Hurricanes Rita and Katrina, and the recent floods in the Northeast, will place even greater strains on the flood insurance program than we have seen in the past. I gather the current estimates are that we will have over $20 billion in flood insurance payouts, more than has been paid out in flood insurance claims since the program began in 1968. 
   So I think this review of the flood insurance program is obviously timely. There are many issues that need to be looked at:
   * We must look at why many property owners do not have flood insurance. Rates of coverage are quite low;
   * Although mortgage lenders must ensure that homeowners have flood insurance in flood zones, there is no system in place to ensure the homeowners keep the coverage in force; 
   * And many properties that lie outside of the "special flood hazard areas" are flooded. We need to look at how we define mandatory purchase zones and assess whether requiring coverage only for those properties within the 100 year flood zone makes sense;
   * The state of our flood maps is apparently woefully inadequate. FEMA is in the midst of map modernization, but the state people tell us that these maps really do not reflect the true risk to life and property; 
   * And there is some concern about FEMA's staffing and resources and whether placing it within the Department of Homeland Security means that it is being neglected in that regard. I think that is an important issue to look at as well.
   Mr. Chairman, obviously a number of issues have arisen. Again, I want to emphasize my concerns that the reforms that I worked with Senator Bunning and others on the Committee to formulate and move through have not be fully implemented by FEMA. And some of those were quite important indeed and I want to know why that is the case and what can be done about it. 
   It should not take another catastrophe to put some of these things into effect.
 
 