WASHINGTON AREA SENATORS URGE ATTORNEY GENERAL TO COMMIT ADDITIONAL FEDERAL RESOURCES TO COMBAT INCREASING GANG VIOLENCE
  The four United States Senators from the Washington Metropolitan Area have written to Attorney General John Ashcroft urging him to commit additional federal resources to the region in an effort to help stem an increase in gang-related violence in the Washington Metropolitan Area. 
   "Law-enforcement officials in all jurisdictions in the greater Washington, D.C. area - urban and suburban neighborhoods - are reporting a dramatic rise in violent gangs. The estimated number of gang members in the region now is believed to exceed 3,600. The proliferation of gangs in this region, the complexity of gang issues, as well as increasing incidences of gang involvement in carjackings, robberies, and assault with deadly weapons exceed the ability of local enforcement officers alone to deal with this problem," wrote Senators Paul S. Sarbanes (D-MD), John Warner (R-VA), Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), and George Allen (R-VA).
   "While Federal assistance has been provided to State and local governments in the region through the Office of Justice Programs and the FBI to help combat the surge in gang violence, there is an urgent need for greater federal assistance, more personnel, better technology and a coordinated strategy to stem this growing tide."
   In their letter to the Attorney General, the Senators are suggesting that a "comprehensive, coordinated program modeled on, or even using, the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area (HIDTA) Program structure would greatly facilitate cooperation, intelligence sharing, and coordination of strategies and enforcement activities between federal, state, and local law enforcement agencies."
   "We understand that the Washington/Baltimore HIDTA is already collaborating with the Metropolitan Area Regional Gang Investigators Network (MARGIN) to exchange information on current investigations, gang structure, and crimes associated with their activities. That collaboration could be greatly expanded to include prevention, intervention and suppression activities.
   "We ask that you consider this suggestion and make the full range of resources of the U.S. Department of Justice, including the Gang Resistance Education and Training (G.R.E.A.T.) Program, the Project Safe Neighborhood program, the Federal Bureau of Investigation's Safe Streets Program, and the Weed and Seed Program, available to extinguish the threat of gang violence in this area."
   Contact: Jesse Jacobs, 202/224-4524, http://sarbanes.senate.gov.
 
 