SEN. SARBANES QUESTIONS SECRETARY OF STATE RICE DURING SENATE FOREIGN RELATIONS COMMITTEE HEARING ON 'IRAQ IN U.S. FOREIGN POLICY'
  "IRAQ IN U.S. FOREIGN POLICY"
  SARBANES QUESTIONS SECRETARY OF STATE RICE
  SENATE FOREIGN RELATIONS COMMITTEE
   What follows is the question and answer session between Sen. Paul S. Sarbanes (D-MD) and Secretary of State Condolezza Rice during the Senate Foreign Relations Committee hearing on the issue of "Iraq in U.S. Foreign Policy:" 
   SARBANES: Madam Secretary, do you think the secretary of state visiting with the Foreign Relations Committee once a year in a public session to discuss U.S. foreign policy is adequate visitation?
   RICE: Senator, I would be glad to come more often. I'm one of the most open people you will find to consultations, to briefings. Indeed, I would like very much to come more often.
   Obviously, the committee has work. Obviously, I'm on travel a great deal. We make available to you many officials of the department.
   But you can be certain, I enjoy the process of testimony and I'm very happy to come back more often.
   SARBANES: Well, Mr. Chairman, I would suggest we extend - I know we've been extending invitations, as I understand it, to the secretary...
   RICE: I think we had one that had to be canceled, Senator, because I had to travel. That's the only invitation of which I'm aware that I was unable to accept.
   But I just want to assure you, I see no reason that we cannot get together more often.
   SARBANES: Now, I take your response to questions put to you by my colleagues here today - and I want to make sure I'm not drawing an inaccurate conclusion - that the U.S., that the administration entertain the possibility of using military action against Syria or against Iran, and that it's your view that the administration could undertake to do that without obtaining from the Congress an authorization for such action.
   Is that correct?
   RICE: Senator, I believe that what I said is that the president doesn't take any of his options off the table and that I will not say anything that constrains his authority as commander in chief.
   But the course on which we are currently launched is a diplomatic course to try and bring international pressure on both Syria and Iran to do the right thing, particularly on Syria.
   SARBANES: Well, I understand that, but I also understand that you're telling me that you also are reserving the military option against either of those two countries and that you think you can exercise that military option without an authorization from the Congress.
   RICE: Senator, I just have to repeat, the president never takes any option off the table, and he shouldn't.
   As to his authority as commander in chief, I don't want to say anything that might appear to abridge that, but we're on a different course concerning Syria and Iran.
   SARBANES: Leaving aside the president authority, do you think it would be wise to take such action without an authorization from the Congress?
   RICE: Senator, we are not on...
   SARBANES: I'm not asking you now to try to give a legal opinion with respect to his authorities. I'm asking you a question as to whether it would be wise to take such action without a congressional authorization.
   RICE: Senator, I am not in a position to, nor do I wish to prejudge what the president might do in a hypothetical situation. But I can tell you that we're currently on a course that is diplomatic in character.
   SARBANES: Well, when you say in your statement that they must choose either the path of peace or the path of war - I think that's the quote, let me see if I can find it here.
   Do you recall that in your...
   RICE: I do, Senator, I recall that. "The path of war," meaning the continued...
   SARBANES: "... whether they wish to side with the cause of war or with the cause of peace."
   RICE: That's right, the cause of war being the insurgents who are making war on the Iraqi people. That's what that refers to.
   SARBANES: Now, is Iran doing the same things that Syria's doing?
   RICE: The circumstances are different, Senator.
   RICE: And we have been concerned about the Iranian activities that may be supporting militias or insurgents in the south. It is a somewhat different situation. The concern in Syria is actually quite clear which is that there are people who are coming in through Damascus Airport and then crossing the border into Iraq.
   And we believe that that can be rather easily cut off. It's a more complicated situation with Iran but it's worrying.
   SARBANES: Now, on page seven and eight of your statement, you outline a very ambitious agenda for the countries in the region that they should take their oil revenues, considering (inaudible) for the future, become partners and then invest very substantial sums.
   I mean, I don't know what reason you have to think that they will do that and it does raise this question on the reconstruction money that's going in.
   Now the U.S. has put in, as I understand it, tens of billions of dollars in reconstruction assistance in Iraq. Is that correct?
   RICE: That's correct.
   SARBANES: How much has come from other donors?
   RICE: The total pledge to Iraq at this point is about $13.5 billion.
   SARBANES: Right.
   RICE: We believe that that number - that was the reference that I was making in the pages that you're referring to - that now that we are moving to a permanent Iraqi government, that commitment, that financial commitment ought to be significantly increased because...
   SARBANES: Well, how much of the $13.5 billion has actually been committed or disbursed?
   RICE: Well, I'll have that to get for you, Senator, in terms of disbursement. Some of it is for multilateral institutions where - for instance, with the IMF and World Bank...
   SARBANES: I have a figure of $3 billion. Does that strike you as in the ballpark?
   RICE: Senator, I won't quarrel with that number. It may well be. But I just remind that most of them would say, and we have been pushing back on this, that the security situation makes it difficult for them to actually disburse the money and make the projects work more quickly.
   But I believe that through discussion with them and through additional resources to be made available, that they really should invest in Iraq.
   SARBANES: Well, I know you think they should. The question I was asking is: What makes you think they will?
   Let me address the freedom deficit that you made reference to more than once so far in your testimony this morning.
   What is it you envision, even if Iraq works out the way you're projecting? And of course, there are lots of questions being raised about that and many difficulties. But beyond that, this tremendous freedom deficit that exists in the Middle East, are we're going to have embark on similar missions in order to correct the freedom deficit?
   RICE: I think we're addressing the freedom deficit or, more importantly, people who want to have a different kind of Middle East. And I mean people within the region, nongovernmental organizations, citizens, opposition groups, are taking advantage of the opening that I think the president has provided with his call for addressing the freedom deficit to address it for themselves...
   SARBANES: But you have regimes that maintain an authoritarian or totalitarian control. How are we going to address that question in order to restore the freedom deficit?
   RICE: Well, Senator, we are addressing it. We're addressing it by making available to opposition and to citizens who wish to challenge the political system or to challenge the political ruling authorities, assistance through for democratic development, for party- building.
   It's also the case that if you look country by country in the region, yes, in some places, the progress is small or slow. But it is progress. If you look at Egypt which held imperfect, to be sure...
   SARBANES: Well, I'm looking at other countries that are much more constrained. And the question, of course, again, is whether we're entertaining using our military forces to try to address this freedom deficit.
   RICE: Senator, I don't think anybody thinks that the question of reform in the Middle East is a primarily a military question.
   SARBANES: Now, let me ask you this question because it was put to you by a number of my colleagues. And you say: Well, I can't really respond to it.
   Do you think five years from now, some American forces will have come out?
   RICE: Senator, I don't want to speculate. I do know that we're making progress with what the Iraqis themselves are capable of doing. And as they are able to do certain tasks, as they are able to hold their own territory, they will not need us to do that.
   And so...
   SARBANES: Well, let me make the question a little easier. What about 10 years from now?
   RICE: Senator, I think that to try and speculate on how many years from now there will be a certain number of American forces is not appropriate.
   RICE: What is appropriate is to say the Iraqis have made progress - they're making more progress. They're not going to need us there when they can hold these places on their own.
   SARBANES: I have to say to you, that leaves me to draw the conclusion that you're leaving open the possibility that 10 years from now we will still have military forces in Iraq.
   RICE: Senator, I don't know how to speculate about what will happen 10 years from now.
   But I do believe that we are moving on a course in which Iraqi security forces are rather rapidly able to take care of their own security concerns. As the president has said, at that point, we are not going to need our forces there to do the things that Iraqis themselves ought to be doing. And I assume, along with everyone else, that when the Iraqis are capable of doing that, that Americans are going to come home.
   SARBANES: Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
 
 