SEN. SARBANES, REP. CARDIN PRESENT $2.5 MILLION CHECK TO NOAA FOR BAY COMMUNITY EDUCATION PROGRAM
  Rep. Benjamin L. Cardin and Sen. Paul Sarbanes today presented Lowell Bahner, Director of the NOAA Chesapeake Bay Office and Dr. Eric Smith, Superintendent of Anne Arundel County Schools with a check for $2.5 million for the Bay Watershed Education and Training Program (B-WET). Rep. Cardin and Sen. Sarbanes are two of the strongest supporters of environmental education programs in Congress. 
   NOAA's B-WET program funds the Chesapeake Connections program. B-WET, which incorporates workshops for teachers and hands-on student participation, was established in 2002 and since then has become a national model for environmental education. Currently, 25 Anne Arundel County schools participate in the program, reaching an estimated 14,500 students.
   The Congressman and Senator toured the greenhouse at the Center for Applied Technology North where 3rd graders from George Cromwell Elementary School and 7th and 8th graders from Chesapeake Middle School harvested and replanted three endangered species. The plants will be grown in the greenhouse for a spring restoration project.
   "The Bay is Maryland's most precious natural resource and it's critical that our students learn then importance of stewardship of our environment. The B-WET program has become a model for environmental education because it provides students with first-hand learning experiences that will enable them to understand the need to protect and nurture our natural resources for future generations," said Rep. Cardin.
   "Environmental education and training will lead not only to a healthier Chesapeake Bay ecosystem, but also to a more educated and informed citizenry, with a deeper understanding and appreciation for the environment, their community and their role in society as responsible citizens," said Sen. Sarbanes. "The feedback from this program has been very positive and has helped to inform and educate the next generation of the Bay's stewards to the importance of this estuary." 
   "NOAA is honored to participate in such an important program," said retired Navy Vice Adm. Conrad C. Lautenbacher, Ph.D., Under Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere and NOAA Administrator. "A future generation that understands the significance of this valuable resource is critical for NOAA to achieve our environmental stewardship mission." 
   "It is an honor to have Sen. Sarbanes and Rep. Cardin recognize the importance of educating our students about the resources of Chesapeake Bay," said Anne Arundel County Public Schools Superintendent Eric J. Smith. "With this funding, we'll be able to continue to provide our students with an understanding of how vital it is to protect, cultivate, and sustain the resources of the Bay. Our schools have a strong commitment to environmental education, and we continue to collaborate with professional and scientific organizations to maximize the learning opportunities we offer our students."
   Contact: Susan Sullam, 410/433-8886.
 
 