SENS. SARBANES, MIKULSKI ANNOUNCE NEW CHESAPEAKE BAY GATEWAY NETWORK SITES
  Sens. Paul S. Sarbanes (D-MD) and Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) today announced the 18 Maryland recipients of grant funding from the National Park Service for the sixth year of the "Chesapeake Bay Gateways Network Program." The program, which Sarbanes authored in 1998, is working to link the natural, historic, cultural and recreational resources of the Chesapeake Bay and its tributaries into a unified network. Three sites throughout Anne Arundel County were part of this year's recipients. 
   The grants support projects at places participating in the Chesapeake Bay Gateways Network. According to the National Park Service, the Gateways Network is a partnership system of over 140 parks, refuges, maritime museums, historic seaports and water trails where people can experience and learn about the Chesapeake Bay and its watershed. This year, the National Park Service is awarding $1.6 million in federal grant funding. Twenty-seven grants are being made to Gateways throughout the Bay watershed in Maryland, Pennsylvania, Virginia and the District of Columbia. 
   "This program has been extremely popular in opening up new opportunities to enhance public awareness and involvement in our on-going efforts to restore the Chesapeake Bay," said Sarbanes. "Each Gateway site tells a different Bay story, and enables people to better understand and appreciate the Chesapeake Bay and all it has to offer.
   "In addition, these grants will help local communities and organizations improve desperately needed public access to the Bay and its waterways, and help to boost the economic activity generated by tourism and recreation within the watershed."
   "The Gateways Program greatly aids our communities in preserving Maryland's greatest natural resource, the Chesapeake Bay, for future generations of Marylanders," said Senator Mikulski. "The Chesapeake Bay is part of who we are as Marylanders. It's part of our heritage and its part of our culture. That's why I am so proud to work with Senator Sarbanes to keep fighting for the Bay and keep fighting for the Marylanders whose livelihoods depend on it."
   Three of the 18 grant recipient sites are located in Anne Arundel County:
   The awarded sites are:
   * The US Lighthouse Society will use $72,385 as part of efforts to provide preservation of and accessibility to the Thomas Point Shoal Lighthouse through the creation of a new, expanded docking facility that will enhance public access via museum tour boats to the 130-year-old Thomas Point Shoal Lighthouse on the South River. In addition, two rooms inside the lighthouse will be restored to give visitors a more engaging and historically accurate experience;
   * The Shady Side Rural Heritage Society is having $23,110 designated for enhancing access and interpretation of the Captain Salem Avery House Waterfront. Improvements to a pier, the development of an oyster garden, and new interpretive materials on the social and natural history of the West River highlight a project that will open up access to the previously closed waterfront at this historic waterman's home in Shady Side, outside Annapolis; and
   * Annapolis & Anne Arundel County Visitor Center, Conference & Visitors Bureau will receive $12,504 to be used for the development of new displays at the Annapolis Visitors Center and Annapolis City Dock which will introduce 200,000 annual visitors to the Chesapeake Bay Gateways Network and how to find and visit Gateways in the Anne Arundel County region.
   The Chesapeake Bay Gateways Network Program provides grants to non-profit organizations, and state and local governments to enhance places participating in the Gateways Network. The Program is coordinated by the National Park Service in partnership with the Chesapeake Bay Program and a 17-organization working group established by the Bay Program. The website is www.baygateways.net.
   Contact: Jesse Jacobs and Andrew Burkowske, 202/224-4524.
 
 