SEN. SARBANES COMMENTS ON FEDERAL RESERVE'S SEMI-ANNUAL MONETARY POLICY REPORT TO CONGRESS
  I am pleased to welcome Chairman Greenspan before the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs this afternoon to testify on the Federal Reserve's semi-annual monetary policy report to Congress.
   At the last meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee on June 30, the FOMC decided to raise its target for the federal funds rate by 25 basis points to 1-1/4 percent, the first change in interest rates by the Federal Reserve in about a year's time. 
   The FOMC, in a statement released after the meeting, said, "The Committee perceives the upside and downside risks to the attainment of both sustainable growth and price stability for the next few quarters are roughly equal. With underlying inflation still expected to be relatively low, the Committee believes that policy accommodation can be removed at a pace that is likely to be measured. Nonetheless, the Committee will respond to changes in economic prospects as needed to fulfill its obligation to maintain price stability."
   The final sentence of that paragraph has generally been read to suggest that the FOMC will take a more aggressive stance toward monetary policy if economic conditions warrant. But I would just like to note that in light of the recent economic indicators that have been released, that the sentence could also be read to suggest that the FOMC may tilt in the other direction if, in fact, it is necessary.
   While the outlook for economic growth remains positive, most forecasts are being revised downward. GDP growth for the first quarter of this year was revised downward to 3.9 percent. Last week the Commerce Department reported an unexpectedly large decline in retail sales for June of 1.1 percent, and the Fed reported a 0.3 percent decline in industrial production. And just this morning the Commerce Department reported that housing construction fell 8.5 percent in June, the sharpest drop since February 2003.
   While these are all just monthly numbers, they raise questions about the strength of the economic outlook. That is particularly true when taken together with the continuing weakness in the labor market.
   Job growth in May declined from the 300,000 figure of March and April to 250,000, and in June it was cut in half to 112,000. As a result of the prolonged period of labor market weakness, the economy remains 1.2 million jobs below the level when the recession began 39 months ago. Compared to the average economic recovery of the post- war era, today's economy is nearly 6 million jobs short.
   Further, in June, 1.7 million of the unemployed, 21.6 percent of the total, had been unemployed an average duration of 20 weeks. The long-term unemployed have made up over 20 percent of the unemployed for the past 21 months, surpassing the record set from 1982-1984.
   As the New York Times reported on Sunday, the slack labor market is resulting in the failure of hourly pay in the United States to keep pace with inflation. As the article points out, the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported last Friday that hourly earnings of production workers fell 1.1 percent over the past twelve months, after accounting for inflation. The decline is the steepest since the recession of 1991.
   And only this morning, the Wall Street Journal had an article entitled, "So Far, Economic Recovery Tilts to Highest-Income Americans," which goes on to note that, "To date, the recovery's primary beneficiaries have been upper income households."
   Finally, Mr. Chairman, I would like to take note that Virgil Mattingly, who had served as General Counsel for the Federal Reserve Board and the Federal Open Market Committee for the past 15 years, and who served a total of 30 years at the Federal Reserve, retired on June 30.
   Virgil Mattingly worked closely with the members and staff of this Committee on every major piece of banking legislation enacted over the past 20 years. He always provided not only exceptionally intelligent and competent technical assistance to the work of this Committee, but also wise counsel and wise advice. He was, in my view, an extraordinarily able and dedicated public servant, and upheld and, indeed, in some measure helped to define the tradition at the Federal Reserve of an outstanding career service. He made very significant contributions to our Nation and to the formulation of public policy and I wanted to take this opportunity to wish him well.
   I also want to take this opportunity to congratulate Scott Alvarez, who has been Associate General Counsel for the Federal Reserve, and has been appointed to succeed Virgil Mattingly as General Counsel. Scott Alvarez is also well known and highly regarded by the members and staff of this Committee, and we look forward to continuing to work closely with him in his new capacity.
   Thank you Mr. Chairman.
   Contact: Jesse Jacobs, 202/224-4524.
 
 