SENS. SARBANES, MIKULSKI ANNOUNCE ADDITIONAL FUNDING FOR C&O CANAL REWATERING PROJECT
  Sens. Paul S. Sarbanes (D-MD) and Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) announced that the Senate has approved legislation which authorizes an additional $10.75 million for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to complete efforts to rewater the historic C&O Canal at its western terminus in the City of Cumberland. The provision for the Canal project was included in the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) which provides for the Corps of Engineers to make improvements to our Nation's rivers, ports, harbors, and other waterways. The two Maryland Senators have been strong proponents of the rewatering project over the years. 
   "Over the years, the rewatering project has been one of my top priorities for Western Maryland," said Sarbanes. "The rebuilding and rewatering of the historic C&O Canal in the Cumberland area will assist in revitalizing the area as a major hub for tourism and environmentally sound economic development." 
   "The C&O Canal is a pathway into our history and a pathway to enjoying nature and recreation. That's why I have always been committed to the preservation of the C&O Canal," said Senator Mikulski. "For years, Senator Sarbanes and I have fought for federal money so that the canal can be rewatered and its history could be preserved. I'm proud to join Senator Sarbanes in working for this federal investment."
   The C&O Canal was begun in 1828 as a transportation route between commercial centers in the East and frontier resources of the West. It reached the Cumberland area in 1850 and continued operating until 1924 when it succumbed to flood and financial failure. In 1952, a 1.2 mile section of the historic Canal and turning basin at its Cumberland terminus was filled in by the Corps of Engineers during construction of a local flood protection project. Portions of the Canal were proclaimed a national monument in 1961 and it was officially established as a national historic park in 1971.
   The Corps of Engineers determined in the late 1990's that it was feasible to successfully rewater the Canal without compromising the flood protection for the City of Cumberland. Since 1999, Sarbanes and Mikulski have been working to move this project towards completion, obtaining more than $15 million in federal dollars for this project, and most recently an additional $500,000 in the FY 2007 Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill that is now pending before the full Senate. In May, Sarbanes joined Western Maryland officials in ceremonies marking the rewatering of the first ? mile of the Canal. These additional funds will enable the Corps of Engineers to complete the entire 1.2 mile rewatering project at the historic western terminus area.
   The bill must now be reconciled with a previously passed House version before going to the President for signature.
   Contact: Jesse Jacobs and Andrew Burkowske, 202/224-4524.
 
 