SENS. SARBANES, MIKULSKI ANNOUNCE EFFORT TO HELP REVITALIZE ANACOSTIA RIVER
  Sens. Paul S. Sarbanes (D-MD) and Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) announced that the Senate has approved legislation which will help to facilitate the restoration of the Anacostia River. A provision was included by the two Maryland Senators to the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) which provides for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to make improvements to our Nation's rivers, ports, harbors, and other waterways. 
   Through a cooperative and coordinated federal, state, local and private effort, significant progress has been made over the past decade to restore the Anacostia watershed. Today there are more than 60 local, state and federal agencies involved in Anacostia watershed restoration efforts and more than $100 million in federal, state and local funds have been invested in this endeavor.
   The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers has played a key role in improving tidal water flow through the marsh, reducing the concentration of nitrogen and phosphorus, and restoring wetlands, but the job of restoring the Anacostia watershed is far from complete.
   The provisions in the bill require the Secretary of the Army, in coordination with the Mayor of the District of Columbia, the Governor of Maryland, the County Executives of Montgomery County and Prince George's County, Maryland, and others, to develop and make available to the public a 10-year comprehensive action plan to provide for the restoration and protection of the ecological integrity of the Anacostia River and its tributaries.
   "The Anacostia River is one of the most degraded rivers in the Chesapeake Bay watershed and we must increase our efforts to turn this river around," said Sarbanes. "The overall health of the Chesapeake Bay is dependent upon the health of the waters that flow into it and until we begin to make substantial progress on clean-up of the Anacostia River and other waterways, the health of the Bay will continue to suffer. This legislation will help in our endeavors." 
   "The Chesapeake Bay is part of who we are as Marylanders - our heritage and our culture," said Senator Mikulski. "Maryland's communities want to do the right thing by the Bay, but they can't do it on their own. That's why I have worked so hard with Senator Sarbanes to put money in the federal checkbook that helps restore the Anacostia River."
   Contact: Jesse Jacobs and Andrew Burkowske, 202/224-4524.
 
 