SEN. SARBANES ISSUES STATEMENT ON 'EXOTIC MORTGAGES'
  Statement of Senator Paul S. Sarbanes (D-MD)
  Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee
  Joint Subcommittee Hearing on "Exotic Mortgages"
   I want to commend Chairmen Allard and Bunning, and Ranking Members Reed and Schumer for holding this second hearing to examine the housing markets and the economy. 
   While we focused on the overall housing market last week, today's hearing is designed to explore the challenges posed by new and highly complex mortgage products.
   The mortgage market that a borrower confronts today is vastly different from the market as it existed even five or six years ago. In 2000, 85% of all mortgages were fixed-rate obligations. Borrowers understood these mortgages, and the risks, generally speaking, were transparent.
   Today, nearly half of all loans are adjustable rate mortgages (46%). Moreover, about 37% of all loans originated in 2005 are what many now call "exotic mortgages" - either interest-only loans, or option-ARMs - where a borrower has the option to make a payment that is not sufficient to cover even the interest due. These loans result in negative amortization.
    The regulators tell us that these exotic mortgages were designed as niche products for wealthier borrowers. As such, they may have been perfectly appropriate.
   However, over the past three years, lenders and mortgage brokers have been selling these more sophisticated and complex loans to middle class and lower-income borrowers as "affordability" products - in other words, they are being used to enable borrowers to keep up with steadily escalating housing prices. These mortgages are characterized by significant payment shocks that hit borrowers some years into the loan.
   In my view, these sorts of innovative products are helpful in that they can expand consumer choices and creating opportunities to increase homeownership. This is only true, however, if they are used judiciously. This means that the loans must be underwritten so as to reasonably ensure that borrowers can afford the payments over the life of the loan, not just during an introductory period. Loans - whether a new, exotic product, or a more traditional mortgage - should be underwritten with this in mind.
   Unfortunately, the evidence seems to indicate that this careful approach has not been followed in recent years. Too often, according to what the regulators tell us, loans have been made without the careful consideration as to the long term sustainability of the mortgage. Loans are being made without the lender documenting that the borrower will be able to afford the loan - after the expected payment shock hits - without depending on rising incomes or increased appreciation.
   And we are seeing the consequences of this. The cover story of Business Week (September 11, 2006) says that "more than a fifth of option ARM loans in 2004 and 2005 are upside down - meaning borrowers' homes are worth less than their debt." If home prices drop another 10% - which the Realtors expect - "that number would double." 
   An economic report by Merrill Lynch ("House of Horrors," September 18, 2006) indicates that problems are already beginning to surface, as some of the early option-ARMs are being reset. Merrill Lynch, citing data from Realty Trac, notes that foreclosures nationwide "surged 53% year-on-year in August and spiked 24% month-over-month.... The culprit ... is the resets on option ARMs." The report also notes the high concentrations of delinquencies among subprime ARM borrowers in states that had both hot and flat housing markets. 
   The guidance proposed by the regulators, which requires that lenders carefully and fully analyze a borrower's ability to repay the loan by final maturity, based on the fully indexed rate assuming a fully amortizing repayment schedule, should help to curb some of the abuses we are seeing. 
   I strongly support this guidance as an important first step to setting in proper perspective what I perceive to be some troubling aspects of the mortgage industry. This is not the final step, but it's a good start.
   I also support the provisions of the proposed guidance that would require lenders to monitor third party originators, such as mortgage brokers, to ensure that the loans they originate meet the standards of the guidance and of the regulated entity. 
   These third parties originate as many as 80% of the mortgage loans made in this country. If they are not held to the same standard as regulated retail lenders, and if that standard is not effectively enforced, then the rules will not result in better outcomes for borrowers.
   Likewise, we need to urge the states and the regulators to act to adopt consistent rules for unregulated lenders if we expect progress to be made in this area. This is particularly true in the subprime market. According to the 2004 HMDA data, 58% of first lien subprime loans are made by unregulated lenders. These are borrowers that are especially vulnerable, and we need to address their situation
   Mr. Chairmen, again, I thank you for holding this important hearing, and I look forward to hearing from the witnesses.
 
 