SEN. SARBANES DELIVERS COMMENCEMENT ADDRESS AT UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND
  University of Maryland College Park Commencement Address:
   President Mote; Regents and Trustees; Members of the Platform Party; Members of the Faculty and Staff; Family and Friends; and above all, members of the Class of 2006:
   First let me thank Mary Beth and Nicole for their very generous introduction on behalf of the class. I am deeply honored by your invitation to share with you the excitement of this Commencement Day. This University has announced to the world that "Terp Grads are Tops," and I fully endorse that statement. 
   A college degree is a very major accomplishment. It requires a commitment to meet high standards and get things right, the willingness to consider with respect ideas that differ from your own, plain hard work and tenacity, and moments of genuine inspiration. As someone whose parents came to this country as immigrants from Greece, and who was the first in the family to receive a college degree, I know how important this commencement is not only in terms of our society but on a personal level as well.  
   You have not made this journey alone. Along the way you have had the constant support of your family, friends and teachers. I join them in congratulating you on what you have achieved. 
   2006 marks the 150th anniversary of the founding of the University of Maryland, and over the past year you have been part of the great anniversary celebration. This University began as a small agricultural college when chartered by the Maryland legislature in 1856. In its first year the student body numbered 34 - what a contrast with the University of Maryland's over 6,400 degree recipients this year. 
   The Maryland Agricultural College was transformed by the passage in 1862 of the Morrill Act, which established our system of public land-grant colleges and universities. Congressman Morrill, of Vermont, deserves to be remembered for this singular contribution to American society. The Morrill Act created opportunities for higher education where previously there had been few or none, and it laid the foundation for our great public universities. 
    Maryland's new agricultural college was quick to avail itself of the opportunities that the new legislation offered. It became one of the nation's first land-grant institutions and has grown to become "The Model for the Modern Research University" which this year's celebrations proclaim. Maryland now ranks in the top 20 of the nation's public universities and under the able and dedicated leadership of President Dan Mote and his colleagues is driving hard to be in the top 10. I hope as alumni you will to continue to enhance what this great University contributes to the intellectual, economic, social and political life of our State and our Nation.
   Now I ask you to go back yet another 150 years, for 1706 marks the tercentenary of the birth of Benjamin Franklin, a giant in the arduous effort to create our Republic more than two centuries ago. Franklin was a hero in his own time. In my view, he is also a model for ours.
   In many respects Franklin speaks directly to our time - and in ways that go far beyond the maxims in his "Poor Richard's Almanack." These are certainly memorable - not only the best-remembered, like "A stitch in time saves nine," and "A penny saved is a penny earned," but many others, less well-known, that merit our consideration:
   "If your head is wax, don't walk in the sun."
   "An empty bag cannot stand upright."
   "Half the truth is a great lie."
   "It is easier to prevent bad habits than to break them"
  "He that falls in love with himself will have no rivals."
  It is however Franklin's life and not his Almanack that I ask you to consider today, because our time, like Franklin's, is deeply marked by conflict and uncertainty. In the contentious debates that surrounded the war for independence and the effort to establish a framework for democratic governance, Franklin was the steadying influence - thoughtful, respectful of others' opinions, a voice for reasonableness and moderation and, when necessary, compromise - what I would call principled compromise. 
   Franklin set standards of civic responsibility and public service that were critical to the success of the unprecedented experiment in democratic governance that our Constitution represents. Today, when the public discourse is regrettably too often dominated by the loudest, harshest and most strident voices, the standards he set are more important than ever. 
   Ben Franklin has long been looked upon as the Great American Success Story. His personal success is but one part of the story, because he considered personal advancement inseparable from civic engagement: as a prominent Philadelphia citizen he was responsible for the city's first lending library, its volunteer fire company, its hospital, an academy that became a great university, and many other civic improvements. He always said that he would rather have people remember him as someone who lived usefully than as someone who died rich. He attached the highest priority to education, observing that "genius without education is of little value, like silver in the mine."
   At the Second Continental Congress in 1776, he was one of five members delegated to write the Declaration of Independence. It is said that he would have been asked to write the Declaration but for the risk that he would have put a joke in it.
   With independence declared, the next step was to secure it. The prospects were dim. Representing his new nation, Benjamin Franklin went to Paris to secure critical French financial support and treaties, without which the American effort would almost certainly have failed. When the Revolutionary War won, Franklin negotiated the treaty with England affirming American independence. In all these complex negotiations, Franklin proved to be the consummate diplomat, achieving objectives that brute force could never have imposed. 
   When you hear diplomacy derided as old-fashioned and ineffective, I ask you to consider how diplomacy has advanced our nation's interests over more than two centuries. We trace our diplomatic tradition back to Benjamin Franklin, who is honored today in the State Department as the Father of American diplomacy. 
   When the Constitutional Convention convened in May, 1787, Franklin was the oldest delegate, as he had been the oldest member of the Continental Congress. The outcome of the Convention was anything but foreordained. On several occasions it came close to dissolving in discord. Franklin warned that failure to agree would confirm the widely-held belief that "popular governments cannot long support themselves." He was throughout the consistent voice for moderation and compromise, visionary with respect to the future of the new Republic but immensely practical with respect to the problems at hand. 
  When the Convention rejected his own proposals he threw his powerful support behind the emerging compromise, the intricate system of checks and balances that our Constitution embodies. 
   It fell to Franklin to give the Convention's closing speech, which was read for him because he was too weak to deliver it himself. He told the delegates that although he did not agree with all the provisions of the new Constitution, he would support it for "the public good." He asked them not to cling rigidly to their own beliefs but rather to join him in acting in a spirit of conciliation. No one was in possession of the whole truth, he said, and if the Constitution was not perfect in every respect it was still as close to perfect as any document was likely to be. 
   No one understood better than Franklin the delicate balance that our Constitution represented then and represents to this day. Our society is not a perpetual motion machine that once set in motion can be counted on to operate smoothly. Because ours is a democratic society, as you assume the responsibilities of a self-reliant adult each of you will be called upon to lend a hand in keeping it on an even keel.
   Like the substantive problems it is called upon to address, the democratic process is not easy. While it guarantees to each of you the right to be heard, it does not guarantee that your views will prevail. It grants you the right to present you arguments while denying you the right to impose them upon others. It requires patience, hard work and a willingness to have your views tested by the judgement of your peers. It presupposes a willingness to get involved in the problems or your day, to participate rather than simply criticize from the safe distance of the sidelines. 
   If you ask me why this effort is worthwhile, I say the following: 
   - First, as educated citizens you have a special responsibility to attend to the proper functioning of our society. By virtue of your graduation from this outstanding University you join a limited group in our society upon which special obligations and expectations are placed;
  - And second, over the course of your lifetime you will find it difficult - indeed, impossible - to dissociate your own personal happiness from the well-being of the society in which you live.
   The ancient Greeks, who first developed the concept of democracy, had very pronounced views on the question of the individual's relationship to the community. They believed everyone should undertake some form of public obligation, and they looked down with scorn on anyone totally absorbed in personal, private pursuits and indifferent to the public interest. They even had a particular word for such a person - idiotes - the root of our English word idiot. I trust there are no idiots in this graduating class.
   The story is told that as the delegates left the State House, their work at last completed, a crowd of citizens awaited them, eager for news of the deliberations. A woman in the crowd called out, "What is it to be, Doctor Franklin, a monarchy or a republic?" Franklin famously replied, "A republic, Madam, if you can keep it."
   I am confident that you will rise to meet the challenge that Franklin uttered in the streets of Philadelphia more than two hundred years ago. I know your families, the faculty and your friends join me in the confidence that you will indeed keep the Republic. The good wishes of all of us go with you in that great endeavor.
 
 