SENS. SARBANES, MIKULSKI ANNOUNCE FEDERAL FUNDING FOR TWO BALTIMORE AREA MUSEUM PROJECTS
  Sens. Paul S. Sarbanes (D-MD) and Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) today announced that two Baltimore area institutions have been awarded two grants totaling $147,156 from the Institute of Museum and Library Services (IMLS). The IMLS distributed these grants under the auspices of the 1996 Museum and Library Services Act, which provide federal support for museums and libraries.  
   Slated to receive funding are:
   * The National Aquarium in Baltimore has received $139,133 to plan, develop, implement, and evaluate a staff led interactive program for presentation in its 250-seat auditorium. The program will be tentatively titled "Watershed Moments" and will encourage active stewardship and lifelong learning by integrating visitors' varied experiences with the aquarium and helping visitors connect these experiences with their own lives in the watershed; and
   * The Historical Electronics Museum has been awarded $8,023 to initiate their Library Access Project, which will include the creation of an electronic searchable database for the museum's entire collection of over 11,000 books, journals and manuals. The goals of this endeavor are both increased accessibility to museum resources and the expansion of the museum's educational services for student and adult researchers who are looking for hard-to-find information on electronics history.
   "I would like to commend these institutions for being recognized for these important grants," said Sarbanes. "These funds are intended to help museums do what they do best: educate inspire, inform, enhance, entertain and enrich the lives of the thousands of Marylanders and visitors they attract each year." 
   "Museums contribute to the rich quality of life in our communities," said Senator Mikulski. "They record our history, reflect our values and renew our sense of pride and wonder. These grants will help the Historical Electronics Museum and the National Aquarium in Baltimore continue their mission to educate and entertain families for generations to come."
   Contact: Jesse Jacobs and Andrew Burkowske, 202/224-4524.
 
 