SENS. SARBANES, MIKULSKI ANNOUNCE INSTITUTE OF MUSEUM AND LIBRARY SERVICES GRANTS FOR TWO EASTERN SHORE MUSEUMS
  Sens. Paul S. Sarbanes (D-MD) and Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) today announced that two Eastern Shore institutions have been awarded two grants totaling $105,279 from the Institute of Museum and Library Services (IMLS).  
 The IMLS distributed these grants under the auspices of the 1996 Museum and Library Services Act, which provide federal support for museums and libraries. 
   Slated to receive funding are: 
   * The Adkins Arboretum has been awarded $72,705 to launch a comprehensive two-part Native Plant Education Initiative that will include creating a native plant database by cataloging, digitizing, and mapping native plant records and plant communities and making the database accessible to the general public through the arboretum's Web site and a public access computer station; and
   * The Chesapeake Bay Maritime Museum has been awarded $32,574 to add and categorize the basic contextual information and digital images of nearly 3,000 objects related to a new permanent exhibit entitled "Chesapeake Encounters" that will open in 2006. This project will be the centerpiece of the museum's efforts to retain complete intellectual control over its collections.
   "I would like to commend these institutions for being recognized for these important grants," said Sarbanes. "These funds are intended to help museums do what they do best: educate inspire, inform, enhance, entertain and enrich the lives of the thousands of Marylanders and visitors they attract each year." 
   "Museums contribute to the rich quality of life in our communities," said Senator Mikulski. "They record our history, reflect our values and renew our sense of pride and wonder. This grant will help the Adkins Arboretum and the Chesapeake Bay Maritime Museum continue the mission to educate and entertain families for generations to come."
   Contact: Jesse Jacobs and Andrew Burkowske, 202/224-4524.
 
 