SEN. SARBANES SEEKING FUNDING TO PRESERVE SOUTHERN MARYLAND'S ENDANGERED TOBACCO BARNS
  As the National Trust for Historic Preservation today named the tobacco barns of Southern Maryland as one of America's 11 Most Endangered Historic Places, Sen. Paul S. Sarbanes (D-MD) is seeking funding to preserve these historical structures that have dotted Southern Maryland's landscape for almost 400 years. 
   Sarbanes has joined several of his Senate colleagues in asking for $10 million nationwide to fund the Historic Barn Preservation Program, a program administered by the Department of Agriculture and helps states protect historic barns that are at least 50 years old.
   In a letter to the leaders of the Senate Agricultural Appropriations Committee, Sarbanes joined in writing that, "Historic barns are among America's greatest national treasures and symbols of our nation's agricultural heritage. Unfortunately, due to decades of deferred maintenance, many historic barns are in disrepair and some are nearly beyond rescue. Preservation of these barns will not only ensure their survival for generations to come, it will provide practical benefits to the farmers that own them, the communities that surround them, and the local economies that they help support."
   According to the National Trust for Historic Preservation, in announcing the endangered tobacco barns in Southern Maryland, "First built by English settlers in the 17th century, these air-cure tobacco barns are unique to Maryland and provide a glimpse into 400 years of the area's complex agricultural and economic history."
   The Trust added that "Southern Maryland is rapidly changing, and residential subdivisions and shopping centers replace tobacco fields. In 2001, a state-sponsored program to discourage tobacco cultivation offered farmers a substantial payment if they stopped growing tobacco....The buyout made hundreds of tobacco barns instantly obsolete. Unless viable alternative uses can be found, these modest landmarks will fall to development pressure, deferred maintenance and weather."
   "These unique structures are an integral part of not only Southern Maryland's landscape, but its agricultural heritage and I hope we are able to provide the funding to help restore some of these deteriorating structures," Sarbanes added.
   Contact: Jesse Jacobs, 202/224-4524, http://sarbanes.senate.gov.
 
 