SENS. SARBANES, MIKULSKI ANNOUNCE OVER $500,000 IN FEDERAL FUNDING TO JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY FOR TRAINING AT REGIONAL COMMUNITY POLICING INSTITUTE
  Sens. Paul S. Sarbanes (D-MD) and Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) today announced that Johns Hopkins University has been awarded $585,714 in grant funding to support the Mid-Atlantic Regional Community Policing Institute (MARCPI).  
 This grant comes from the Department of Justice's Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS).
   Regional Community Policing Institutes (RCPI) are training centers strategically located throughout the country to address specific crime prevention training needs of law enforcement agencies and communities. Specifically, the Mid-Atlantic Institute, located on the campus of Johns Hopkins University, is designed to foster police integrity and ethics through education and training, as well as growing lasting partnerships among law enforcement, community organizations, non-profit organizations and educational institutions. 
   "Community policing has been a proven tool against violence and in reducing crime in Maryland communities," said Sarbanes. "These federal funds will help to ensure that our officers will have the best education and training available, as well as obtain the tools to promote good will within the communities they serve. In addition, I'm proud to see that our region's community policing institute is located right here in Baltimore on the Johns Hopkins campus."
   "Law enforcement officers work hard every day to prevent crime and keep our neighborhoods safe," said Senator Mikulski. "They know that their relationships with local non-profit organizations, schools, and community groups play an important role in their efforts. The Community Policing Institute provides the training and education our police officers need to do their jobs and protect our communities."
   MARCPI provides community-policing services to the Mid-Atlantic region. This region includes: Maryland, Delaware, the District of Columbia, Southern Pennsylvania, and Northern Virginia.
   Contact: Jesse Jacobs and Andrew Burkowske, 202/224-4524.
 
 