SENS. SARBANES, MIKSUSKI ANNOUNCE FEDERAL FUNDING FOR ADKINS ARBORETUM, DORCHESTER HISTORICAL SOCIETY
  Sens. Paul S. Sarbanes (D-MD) and Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) announced today that two Eastern Shore organizations have been awarded grants totaling $10,055 from the Institute of Museum and Library Services (IMLS). The IMLS funded these grants under the auspices of the 1996 Museum and Library Services Act that provides federal support for museums and libraries.  
   Slated to receive funding are:
   * Adkins Arboretum, of the Town of Ridgely in Caroline County, will collect $7,730 in the form of an IMLS Conservation Assessment Program. This grant will fund a two-day visit by a conservation professional who will provide an overall assessment of the grantee's conservation efforts; and
   * The Dorchester County Historical Society will receive $2,325 under an IMLS Museum Assessment Program grant. This money will focus on providing technical assistance that will enable the museum to address its strengths and weaknesses, and better plan for the future.
   "I want to commend those at the Adkins Arboretum and Dorchester Historical Society for being awarded these grants," said Sarbanes. "This funding will enable these institutions to reach their potential in educating, inspiring, and enriching the lives of all Marylanders and the visitors they attract each year."
   "Museums and libraries contribute to the rich quality of life in our communities," said Senator Mikulski. "They record our history, reflect our values and renew our sense of pride and wonder. This money is a federal investment to help the Dorchester County Historical Society and the Adkins Arboretum continue their mission to educate and entertain families for generations to come."
   The IMLS offers federal support to museums of all types and sizes-in urban, suburban, and rural communities throughout the country. Grants in this award cycle are focused on museum operations, which impact all areas of a museum's activities. With the support from the IMLS, museums can achieve high standards of operations that can include: improved fundraising, efficient use of resources, increased educational programs, and successful outreach to the community, schools, and families.
   Contact: Jesse Jacobs and Mary McCeney, 202/224-4524.    
 
 