SEN. SARBANES SPEAKS AT HEARING ON NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM
  STATEMENT OF SENATOR PAUL SARBANES (D-MD)
  HEARING ON THE NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM
   I want to thank Chairman Shelby for holding this hearing today, on an important and critically timely issue, with respect to the National Flood Insurance Program. Last October, we began a review of this program, which insures about 5 million properties across the country. Of course, recent developments have demonstrated major difficulties and weaknesses in the program. 
   To go back just a little bit, after Hurricane Isabel in September 2003, many of my constituents registered complaints about unfair treatment and inadequate settlements from FEMA under their flood insurance policies. The nature and extent of these problems led Congress to pass significant changes and reforms, including requiring FEMA to establish training guidelines for insurance agents, and most importantly, establishing an appeals process for policy holders with complaints. 
   I remain upset that not all of my constituents have yet had a resolution of their situation. We still have people living in trailers. This hurricane was in September 2003 and it is now January 2006. I have to say to FEMA that I think it reflects very poorly on the agency in that regard that these issues have not been resolved.
   I look forward to hearing from David Maurstad, the Acting Federal Insurance Administrator, as to how they are proceeding and implementing the reforms that were passed in this Committee and in addressing these claims.
   Hurricane Isabel brought to light the administrative problems in the National Flood Insurance Program. The recent devastation in the Gulf Coast has raised serious concerns about the fiscal posture of this program. In November 2005 Congress increased FEMA's borrowing authority to $18.5 billion, and FEMA's most recent analysis shows that this funding will pay flood claims through the middle of February. According to FEMA, there will be approximately $24 billion in legitimate flood insurance claims, which means that the borrowing authority must be increased to allow the federal government to meet its contractual obligations to policyholders.
   Obviously, we must ensure that policyholders are able to receive their settlements as soon as possible. Any delay in payments means a delay in rebuilding their homes and in rebuilding their lives. 
   We face many challenges in this Committee.
   According to Dr. Chris Landsea of the National Weather Service, who testified at our hearing in October, "Research suggests that many of the hurricane seasons in the next two to three decades may be much more active than they were in the 1970s through the early 1990s." 
   Hurricane Katrina brought to our attention not only the great need for flood insurance, but also the extent to which people at risk do not have adequate flood coverage. 
   In some of the hardest hit areas of the Gulf Coast, flood insurance coverage was relatively high, even reaching over 50% in some areas; in other areas, however, only 5-10% of housing units had flood insurance. There are a number of reasons for the low participation which needs to be addressed - I think first and foremost by the Administrators of the program, but obviously in an oversight capacity by the Congress itself; people do not understand or fully appreciate their risks, the flood maps are not accurate, and many people who are not required to purchase flood insurance. 
   The hurricanes of last year could not have been avoided but we can try to set up a system so there is adequate coverage for families. We have an obligation to help people understand their risks and to prepare to address those risks as best they can. We have an obligation to ensure that the flood insurance program is financially sound and effectively administered. 
   Mr. Chairman, as you know, our staffs have visited the hardest hit areas of the Gulf. Five months after the storms, debris still fills a majority of yards and streets, mold is rapidly growing, increasing the damage to homes, electricity has not been restored in many areas, people are sleeping in trailers, tents, or even the second stories of their partially-gutted homes. It is clear that tens of thousands of families, if not more, will not be able to rebuild their homes without significant assistance. Some of these people have flood insurance, but many others have nothing. 
   We need to address this situation. This is a crisis within our country and I am increasingly concerned that it is tending to slip from the public view. It comes back in the public view every so often and then it sort of fades away.
   I hope these hearings will focus attention on the situation and that in the course of them we can map out long run changes that will strengthen the program and enhance the coverage. 
   But I hope we don't lose sight of those who are still suffering, that we do not lose sight of the necessity of helping get these people back on their feet and restoring some semblance of normality to their lives.
 
 