SEN. SARBANES ANNOUNCES OPPOSITION TO JUDGE ALITO'S NOMINATION TO SUPREME COURT
  Sen. Paul S. Sarbanes (D-MD) today announced his opposition to the nomination of Judge Samuel Alito, Jr. to the United States Supreme Court. The text of Senator Sarbanes' speech on the Senate floor is follows:
   STATEMENT OF SENATOR SARBANES ON THE NOMINATION OF SAMUEL ALITO, JR. FOR THE POSITION OF ASSOCIATE JUSTICE OF THE UNITED STATES  
   For the second time in 4 months, the Senate is being called upon to carry out one of its most important constitutional responsibilities, which is to give its advice and consent to a nominee to be a Justice on the Supreme Court of the United States. We have many serious responsibilities in this body, but I must say I think this one ranks at or near the very top of any of the decisions we will be called upon to make. That is because it falls uniquely to the nine Justices of the Supreme Court to expound and interpret the Constitution and the laws passed pursuant to it. The installation of two new Justices within a short time period has the potential to alter funda-mentally the constitutional framework that protects the rights and liberties of the people of this Nation. 
   Once again we see the argument being made that the President is entitled to his nominee, and that the Senate's role in the appointment process is limited to confirming the President's choice, barring some serious disqualification with the nominee. In effect, the presumption - a very heavy presumption - it is argued, is with the nominee and his confirmation. 
   In my view, this is not what the Constitution provides in requiring the Senate's advice and consent to a nominee to the Federal bench, which is, after all, a third, separate, independent branch of our national Government. 
   From a historical perspective, it is worth noting that over the course of our history, roughly one in every four nominations to the Court has not been confirmed by the Senate. There have been 158 nominations to the Supreme Court in the course of the history of the Republic, of which 114 were confirmed. Not all of the others were rejected. Some were rejected on votes taken in this body, some withdrew, and some were never acted upon. But the notion of this heavy presumption runs contrary to historical practice in the Senate. Almost one out of every four - actually a little more than one out of every four - nominations has not been confirmed by the Senate. 
   As Michael Gerhardt, distinguished professor of constitutional law at the University of North Carolina Law School, testified recently before the Judiciary Committee: 
   "Neither the plain language of the Appointments Clause nor the structure of the Constitution requires Senators to simply defer to a President's Supreme Court nomination." 
   In my view, the Senate's duty to advise and consent on nominations is an integral part of the Constitution's system of checks and balances among our institutions of government. A nomination alone does not constitute an entitlement to hold the office. 
   Furthermore, some have said when considering a nominee that we look only to their experience, their qualifications, their character. These are all obviously very important criteria. But, in my view, the nominee's judicial philosophy also must be given very serious consideration. We are facing a decision to place someone on the Supreme Court for life tenure. It could be 20, 30, or 35 years. Judge Alito is in his fifties, so we are talking about someone who is going to shape the interpretation of our Constitution over decades. You view that when you consider a nominee to the Supreme Court. 
   The nominee's judicial philosophy should be given very serious consideration, as well put by former Chief Justice Rehnquist. Writing in 1959, long before he went on the Court, the late Chief Justice Rehnquist wrote that the Senate should follow the ``practice of thoroughly informing itself on the judicial philosophy of a Supreme Court nominee before voting to confirm him.'' 
   In considering Judge Alito's nomination to be an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court, in my view, the question of his judicial philosophy is not only a legitimate question but indeed an essential question. Inquiring into a nominee's judicial philosophy does not mean discovering how he or she would decide specific future cases. 
   We are always being warned about that, and there is no effort here to predetermine that. Rather, it seeks to ascertain the nominee's fundamental perspectives on the Constitution, how it protects our individual liberties, ensures equal protection of the law, maintains the separation of powers and the checks and balances encompassed within our Constitution. 
   Judge Alito has served on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit since 1990, during which time he has written hundreds of published opinions, and earlier he served 6 years in the U.S. Department of Justice. So there is much to consider in his record and many lessons to be drawn from it. 
   Of the issues the Court is likely to face, perhaps none is more basic than the proper reach and exercise of executive power. We are particularly focused on this issue now, but it is an issue that has recurred constantly throughout our history as we seek to maintain the careful balance the Founding Fathers placed in the Constitution. 
   They, in fact, established in the Constitution a complex system of democratic governance with three separate, equal branches of the Government. At the center of this system lies not any one of the three branches but rather a delicate balance amongst the three branches. 
   Looking at Judge Alito's record, one sees a clear and constant deference to the executive, which, in my view, would significantly tip that delicate balance with respect to our constitutional system. 
   The Constitution grants the legislative power expressly to Congress. It gives the President power to only approve or veto legislation. The veto power, of course, gives the President very significant authority with respect to legislation. But if a bill becomes the law, with or without the President's approval, it then becomes his or her responsibility as the Chief Executive to see that the law is carried out, to see that the law is properly executed. 
   Judge Alito's record demonstrates he would seek to extend the President's power to allow for modification of law by the executive alone. As one example, while he was an official in the Department of Justice, he was instrumental in advancing a policy of so-called Presidential statements, to create a platform from which the President could seek to alter the underlying purpose of legislation passed by the Congress without the concurrence of the Congress. 
   Such a deference to executive power, I think, is of deep concern, especially as we see on occasion now when Presidents, rather than following constitutional process by seeking legislative change through the Congress, instead refuse to carry out statutes that the Executive finds not to his liking. 
   Furthermore, under our constitutional system, the courts are the ultimate guarantors of individuals' rights and the defenders of our liberties. On this issue, too, Judge Alito has been quite clear and consistent. 
   Professor Goodwin Liu of Boalt Hall School of Law at the University of California at Berkeley summed up Judge Alito's work in his testimony to the Judiciary Committee: 
   Throughout his career, with few exceptions, Judge Alito has sided with the police, prosecutors, immigration officials, and other government agents while taking a minimalist approach to recognizing official error and abuse. 
   In an editorial on January 12, the New York Times made the same point in somewhat different terms: 
   "[Judge Alito] time and again, as a lawyer and a judge, . . . has taken the side of the big corporations against the `little guy,' supported employers against employees, and routinely rejected the claims of women, racial minorities and the disabled." 
   In a memorandum that he submitted when applying for a political position in the Justice Department in 1985, Judge Alito made a series of very sweeping statements about his understanding of the Constitution. He wrote that he was inspired to apply to law school by his opposition to certain decisions of the Warren Court - the Court headed by Chief Justice Earl Warren - decisions which are now considered bedrock provisions of constitutional law, decisions involving criminal procedure, the Establishment clause of the Constitution, and reapportionment. 
   In that very same memo, he also took strong positions in opposition to Court decisions on affirmative action and the right to choose. When asked about the memo during his confirmation hearings, Judge Alito explained that the 1985 memo reflected his views of the Constitution at that time. He did not, however, explicitly disavow those views, and nothing in the hearing record demonstrates they have changed. In fact, his decisions as a judge on the Third Circuit reflect that these are the views he has continued to hold and to espouse. 
   The Baltimore Sun concluded in an editorial that: 
   "Despite Judge Alito's periodic assurances of having an open mind, the disturbing impression from the hearings is that on critical issues such as abortion, civil rights and the limits of executive power, he does not." 
   That is a very perceptive observation with respect to Judge Alito's testimony before the Judiciary Committee. 
   I am not persuaded that Judge Alito recognizes either the critically important role the Supreme Court must play in preserving the constitutional balance of power among the three branches of our Government, that delicate balance to which I made reference earlier which was so much a part of the thinking of that distinguished assemblage which gathered in Philadelphia in the summer of 1787 to frame our Constitution. 
   I have this concern about his view of the role the Court must play in preserving the constitutional balance of power among the three branches of Government and whether he recognizes the role of the Court as the ultimate guarantor of every individual's constitutional rights and liberties. 
   For the ordinary citizens all across our country, the rulings of the Supreme Court can be of immense importance in terms of providing for their rights and liberties. 
   Because I am not persuaded in this regard about the appropriateness of Judge Alito's nomination, when the time comes to vote, I will vote against his nomination to become an Associate Justice on the Supreme Court of the United States.
   Contact: Jesse Jacobs, 202/224-4524.
 
 