SENS. SARBANES, MIKULSKI ANNOUNCE $6 MILLION IN FUNDING FOR SILVER SPRING TRANSIT CENTER
  Sens. Paul S. Sarbanes (D-MD) and Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD), along with Montgomery County Executive Douglas M. Duncan, today announced the release of $6 million in federal Department of Transportation funds for continued development on a consolidated Silver Spring Transit Center, located at the Silver Spring Metrorail Station. 
   The Silver Spring Metrorail Station is currently served by WMATA's Metrobus, Montgomery County Ride-On busses, the Maryland Mass Transit Administration's (MTA's) Commuter Bus Service, the University of Maryland Shuttle, a kiss-n-ride lot and a taxi stand. The Silver Spring Transit Center is a planned $75 million, public-private development project that will consist of a new three-tier inter-modal transit center to link buses, taxis, Metrorail, and MARC trains, as well as sidewalk, street, and public open space improvements. It will also include approximately 200,000 to 250,000 square feet of office space, a 200-room hotel and residential development of approximately 250 units. The transit center's final design is scheduled to be completed soon, with construction beginning in the summer of 2006 and completed by late Fall 2007.
   "This project has been one of my top priorities for the burgeoning downtown Silver Spring area," said Sarbanes. "Once completed, the Transit Center will not only enhance Silver Spring's status as a major hub for public transportation, but will also provide a further boost to the efforts in revitalizing downtown Silver Spring." 
   "I fight every year to make sure that Maryland's transportation needs are a priority in the federal checkbook," said Senator Mikulski. "This federal funding is critical to help relieve traffic congestion and provide a safe and efficient way for people to get to work. It will also create jobs while boosting business in the rapidly growing Silver Spring area. I am proud to secure these federal funds, which are essential to keeping Maryland moving."
   "Senators Sarbanes and Mikulski have proven once again that they are great champions for Montgomery County," said Montgomery County Executive Douglas M. Duncan. "Their commitment to this project and Senator Sarbanes' personal intervention with the Federal Transit Administration led to the release of $6 million toward the development of the Silver Spring Transit Center. The new Transit Center is an essential component of Silver Spring's continued economic revitalization. I thank them, and the Maryland Congressional delegation, for their ongoing support of Silver Spring's remarkable urban renewal."
   Contact: Jesse Jacobs and Andrew Burkowske, 202/224-4524.
 
 