SEN. SARBANES ISSUES STATEMENT ON POLICIES TO ENFORCE BANK SECRECY ACT, PREVENT MONEY LAUNDERING IN MONEY SERVICES BUSINESSES, GAMING INDUSTRY
  Statement of Sen. Paul S. Sarbanes, (D-MD)
  Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs
   "Policies to Enforce the Bank Secrecy Act and Prevent Money Laundering in Money Services Businesses and the Gaming Industry" 
   Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for continuing the Committee's focus on enforcement of the Bank Secrecy Act, usually called the "BSA". Today we will be examining the Treasury's ability effectively to oversee compliance with the BSA by certain non-bank financial institutions, more particularly, by money services businesses - called MSBs - and casinos.
   It is estimated there are about 200, 000 money services businesses in the United States. These include large multinational financial services enterprises that sell traveler's checks or money transmission services, smaller regional money transmitters, the Postal Service, which is a major seller of money orders, and check cashers and currency exchange businesses. Money services businesses operate in many forms. The largest money transmission businesses sell financial products both through proprietary locations and at agents, ranging from hotels to supermarkets. Some have so many locations that they never really have to "send" funds at all; they simply allow funds to be picked up at any location. Smaller transmitters use banks to wire funds to one or more locations here or abroad for payment to recipients through branches or proprietary locations. At the far end of the scale there are the informal money transmission businesses that rely on couriers or on off-setting balance reconciliation (so-called "hawallahs") and that have been cited in various terrorism investigations. Most of these businesses are subject to the BSA. 
   The casinos that are subject to the BSA - it is estimated at 800 in all - are for the most part large, in many cases public, companies, through which millions of dollar pass each week. 
   All of these MSB and casinos are heavily cash- intensive, and they are open to serious abuse by money launderers. Regrettably though only a small amount of federal resources is devoted to auditing these institutions for compliance. The Internal Revenue Service has traditionally been responsible for civil compliance audits in this area - it is, in effect, the counterpart to the bank examiner. The IRS Small Business/Self Employed Division, which is responsible for the task, however, devotes about only 320 individuals to the job on a nation-wide basis.
   The Treasury's own Inspector General for Tax Administration issued a report critical of IRS efforts in this area in 2000. In an update to that report published in March 2004, the IG stated that:
   "Overall the IRS has improved its BSA compliance program since our last review, but the risk of undetected non-compliance still exists. Specifically, the program does not have meaningful performance measures, management information system data are not fully analyzed, and case selection is not risk-based. Further, cases do not contain the documentation necessary to assess civil penalties, examiners cannot access Suspicious Activity Reports ... for better case development, and education with outreach should be better coordinated with FinCEN."
   The lack of federal audit coverage appears to mean that significant BSA compliance failures in this critical area are being discovered, if at all, only by agencies other than IRS. For example, in December 2002, the New York State Banking Department fined Western Union, under its general supervisory authority, $8 million (the largest MSB fine in New York State history) for failing to report hundreds of transactions as required by the BSA. I find it a matter of concern that it was a state banking regulator rather than IRS which undertook what was ultimately a national audit. It seems to me that an aggressive federal audit policy is a necessary part of BSA compliance programs in this as in other parts of the financial sector.
 
 