SENATE COMMITTEE APPROVES LEGISLATION TO RE-DESIGNATE CATOCTIN MOUNTAIN PARK
  Sen. Paul S. Sarbanes (D-MD) announced that the Senate Energy and Natural Resources today unanimously approved legislation that he introduced that would re-designate the name of Catoctin Mountain Park as the Catoctin Mountain National Recreation Area, and clearly identifying it as a unit of the National Park System. 
   The Senate Subcommittee on Public Lands and Forests held a hearing on the legislation, S. 777, on April 28 where Sarbanes testified, along with National Park Service officials in support of the proposed re-designation. "With passage of this small incremental piece of legislation, we will help address any confusion about the ownership and management of Catoctin Mountain Park and will help promote tourism in the area by enhancing public awareness of the National Park unit," Sarbanes said. "In addition, it will complement the recent announcement to designate the Route 15 Corridor in Maryland as the Catoctin Mountain National Scenic Byway."
   Catoctin Mountain Park is the home of Camp David, the Presidential retreat, and comprises nearly 6,000 acres and is rich in history as well as outdoor recreational opportunities. Visitors can enjoy camping, picnicking, cross-county skiing, fishing, and the solitude and beauty of the woodland mountains and streams in the park. 
   In the vicinity lies Cunningham Falls State Park, containing 5,000 acres. The difference between national and state park management has caused longstanding confusion for visitors in the area. Catoctin Mountain Park is continually misidentified by the public as containing lake and beach areas associated with Cunningham Falls State Park, being operated by the State of Maryland, or being closed to the public because of the presence of Camp David. National park employees spend countless hours explaining, assisting and redirecting visitors to their desired destinations.
   Sarbanes noted that the legislation would not change recreation, conservation or education activities currently occurring within the park. However, it would assist the visiting public in distinguishing between the many units of the state and federal systems.
   "With unanimous approval of this legislation by the Committee today, I am hopeful that, as we did in 2003, that we will be able to move this legislation through the entire Senate and hopefully the House of Representatives in the near future," Sarbanes added.
   Contact: Jesse Jacobs and Andrew Burkowske, 202/224-4524.
 
 