SENS. SARBANES, MIKULSKI ANNOUNCE APPROVAL OF FUNDING FOR ADDITIONAL PURCHASES OF PROPERTY AT BROAD CREEK BOY SCOUT CAMP IN HARFORD COUNTY
  Sens. Paul S. Sarbanes (D-MD) and Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) today announced that both the House and the Senate have given final approval and sent to President Bush for his signature the Department of Interior Appropriations bill for fiscal year 2006. The final bill provides an additional $1 million in federal Forest Legacy Program funds for the continued purchase of scenic easements on the nearly 2,000-acre Broad Creek Boy Scout Camp, located in Dublin, in northeastern Harford County.  
   The Broad Creek property is the fifth largest block of land under single ownership in the Baltimore metropolitan region. Located one mile west of the Susquehanna River and three miles south of the Pennsylvania state line, the property contains significant natural resources including hemlock and hardwood forests, meadows and wetland areas which provide critical habitat for a number of important species. Approximately 10,000 boy scouts use the property each year for scouting and recreational opportunities.
   The landowners of the Broad Creek property have been exploring ways to retain the function of the camp for scouting, while preserving and enhancing the natural resources and structural facilities of the camp. They had considered selling some of the camp to finance ongoing maintenance and operations, but are now interested in securing a conservation easement over the property through the Forest Legacy Program.
   "I am pleased that we have been able to provide this second round of funding which will enable the boy scouts to hold onto this property for their camping experiences and will also help to preserve these 2,000 acres for future generations to enjoy," said Sarbanes. "With increased development in this part of our State, it comes as welcome news that we are providing the additional resources to move forward to preserve this scenic habitat." 
   "I am proud to put money in the federal checkbook that builds communities and protects the environment," said Senator Mikulski. "The Broad Creek property is a great example of the natural beauty Maryland has to offer. I am proud that future generations of Boy Scouts will have access to this treasured natural resource."
   The total cost of acquiring the easements on the nearly 2,000 acres tract is $5.35 million, with a non-federal cost share of $1.862 million. The two Maryland Senators obtained the first $1 million for the purchase of the property in the FY 2004 appropriations bill.
   Contact: Jesse Jacobs, 202/224-4524.
 
 