SENS. SARBANES, MIKULSKI ANNOUNCE FUNDING FOR REPAIRS OF HISTORIC FORT WASHINGTON
  Sens. Paul S. Sarbanes (D-MD) and Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) today announced that both the House and the Senate have given final approval and sent to President Bush for his signature the Department of Interior Appropriations bill for fiscal year 2006. The final bill provides an additional $2.876 million in federal funding for the National Park Service to complete the restoration of historic Fort Washington in Southern Prince George's County.  
   Fort Washington is the only remaining coastal fortification built prior to the Civil War for the protection of the Nation's Capitol. Overlooking the Potomac River, Fort Washington replaced Fort Warburton, which was destroyed during the British attack on Washington, DC in 1814. In January 1999, approximately 10,000 bricks fell from the northwest bastion wall and in February 2000 other sections of the wall collapsed.
   This final phase of funding will used to remove old mortar, drain moisture from the walls, and repair the walls and structures supporting the soldier's barracks and parade grounds.
   Sarbanes who has been involved in securing funding to repair the crumbling walls and other restorative efforts at the historic fort since 1999 said, "Fort Washington served for many years in the role of defending this country in wartime. With the bicentennial of the War of 1812 approaching, it is incumbent upon us to come to the defense of this fort, to preserve it and restore it so that Americans can better understand and appreciate the role the Fort played in our young Nation's history."
   "Fort Washington is part of Maryland's rich history and culture. It's a place we have to honor and value for the generations to come," said Senator Mikulski. "When the Fort was damaged in 1999, I was heartsick to think about the loss. That's why I went straight to work in the Senate. I am proud to have fought for over $11 million over the last five years to restore and repair this treasure."
   With the inclusion of this years funding, the two Maryland Senators have secured almost $11 million for restoration and repair efforts at the historic Fort over the past five years.
   Contact: Jesse Jacobs, 202/224-4524.
 
 