CONGRESS APPROVES BILL REQUIRING SECRETARY OF INTERIOR TO DEVELOP PLAN FOR REPAIR OF PATUXENT WILDLIFE RESEARCH CENTER FACILITIES
  Sens. Paul S. Sarbanes (D-MD) and Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) today announced that both the House and the Senate have given final approval and sent to President Bush for his signature the FY 2006 Department of Interior Appropriations bill. The bill contains language, authored by the two Maryland Senators, that requires the Secretary of the Interior to develop and submit a master plan and budget by February 15, 2006 for the repair, rehabilitation or replacement of aging research facilities and buildings at the world renown Patuxent Wildlife Research Center in Laurel. 
   As a result of a reorganization several years ago which placed the personnel of the research center under the jurisdiction of the United States Geological Service (USGS) while maintaining the ownership of the buildings with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, a jurisdictional battle has ensued as to who is responsible for preparing and funding a plan to update the antiquated facilities. A series of independent assessments of facility conditions at the Research Center in 2000 and 2001 indicated that 18 office/laboratory buildings and 9 on-site residences were in need of more than $30 million in repairs. Many of the buildings are more than 50 years old; have failing roofs, insufficient HVAC systems, and fail to meet health, safety and other building code standards. 
   "We cannot allow this world-class research facility to deteriorate any longer because of a bureaucratic dispute amongst federal agencies," said Sarbanes. "While it is unfortunate that we had to move forward with this language mandating the Department of Interior to promptly develop a plan to upgrade these antiquated facilities, it was necessary to settle this bureaucratic dispute amongst these federal agencies and stem the deterioration of this world-class research facility."
   "The Patuxent Wildlife Research Center brings world-class research and information to the nation. We need to make sure that the Center's staff has the resources and facilities they need to deliver this important service," said Senator Mikulski. "That is why I am pleased that this bill directs the Secretary of the Interior to complete an assessment of the facilities at Patuxent and submit a budget plan for repairs, rehabilitation, or replacement of these buildings. This is the first step in ensuring that our skilled researchers have the tools they need to do their job."
   In 2003, the two Maryland Senators along with Congressman Steny Hoyer (MD-5) wrote to the Secretary of the Interior asking her to intervene in the jurisdictional dispute and move forward with the development of a plan to upgrade the facilities. However, the Secretary of the Interior failed to act on the request from the federal legislators and conditions continue to deteriorate, which resulted in the two Senators adding the language to the Appropriations bill to further encourage move the process forward.
   The Patuxent Wildlife Research Center (PWRC) is the nation's oldest and largest institution dedicated to wildlife research. It was established in 1936 as the nation's first national wildlife experiment station with a mission to help protect and conserve the nation's wildlife and natural environment through research on critical environmental problems and issues. For nearly 70 years the PWRC has compiled an impressive record of success for its research on endangered species, migratory birds and environmental contaminants, earning a world-wide reputation for excellence in the scientific community.
   Contact: Jesse Jacobs, 202/224-4524.
 
 