MARYLAND CONGRESSIONAL DELEGATION URGES BUSH ADMINISTRATION TO AID IN DISASTER RELIEF FROM RECENT RECORD-BREAKING RAINS
  All 10 members of the Maryland Congressional Delegation today released a letter to President Bush urging him and members of his Administration to marshal the federal resources necessary to aid Maryland communities hard hit from this past week's record-breaking rains. The text of the letter signed by Sens. Paul S. Sarbanes, Barbara Mikulski, and Reps. Wayne Gilchrest, Dutch Ruppersberger, Ben Cardin, Al Wynn, Steny Hoyer, Roscoe Bartlett, Elijah Cummings, and Chris Van Hollen follows: 
   June 29, 2006
   The Honorable George W. Bush
  The White House
  Washington, D.C. 20500 
   Dear Mr. President:
   During this week's storm system that battered the Mid-Atlantic region, torrential downpours caused extensive flooding and damage to communities throughout Maryland, and claimed at least four lives. The National Hydrometeorological Prediction Center estimated that some of these communities received record levels of rain. Homes and public facilities have been damaged, businesses have been seriously impacted, farmers have experienced extensive crop and livestock losses, and critical roads, bridges and dams have been significantly impaired. County officials have ordered more than 2,200 people to evacuate their homes due to flooding.
   State emergency officials are currently in the process of assessing the damage to these communities, and are working with the Federal Emergency Management Agency to determine their eligibility for a Federal disaster declaration. In the meantime, we urge you to immediately send representatives and release funding from the various Federal agencies that have programs that do not require such a declaration in order to help address the damage incurred by these recent storms, remove debris, and prevent future damage to these vulnerable communities. These include, but are not limited to, the Department of Agriculture, the Army Corps of Engineers, and the Small Business Administration.
   We hope that you will give this request prompt and favorable attention, so that we may provide immediate assistance to these communities. Thank you for your attention to this important matter.
   Contact: Jesse Jacobs, 202/224-4524.
 
 