CONGRESS APPROVES SEN. SARBANES' LEGSLATION TO ESTABLISH NATIONAL HISTORIC TRAILMARKING ROUTE OF CAPTAIN JOHN SMITH'S EXPLORATION OF CHESAPEAKE BAY
  The House and the Senate have given final approval to legislation spearheaded by Sen. Paul S. Sarbanes (D-MD) that would establish a "Captain John Smith Chesapeake National Historic Watertrail." As included in the FY 2006 Interior Appropriations bill, the measure would require the National Park Service to conduct a feasibility study to establish a trail designating the route of Captain John Smith's exploration of the Chesapeake Bay and its tributaries. The measure has been supported by Sens. John Warner (R-VA), Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD), George Allen (R-VA), Tom Carper (D-DE), Rick Santorum (R-PA) and Lamar Alexander (R-TN). 
   The National Historic Trails system commemorates major routes of historic travel and mark major events that have shaped our American history. To date, 13 National Historic Trails have been established including the Lewis and Clark, the Pony Express, Selma to Montgomery, and Trail of Tears National Historic Trails. To be designated as a National Historic Trail, a trail must meet three basic criteria: it must be nationally significant, have a documented route through maps or journals, and provide recreational opportunities. 
   "Establishing the Nation's first National Historic Watertrail recognizing the historical significance of the travels of Captain John Smith will provide rich opportunities for education, recreation, and heritage tourism," said Sarbanes. "It would help highlight the Bay's remarkable maritime history, its unique watermen and their culture, the diversity of its peoples, its historical settlements, and our on-going efforts to restore and sustain the world's most productive estuary." 
   "With the 400th anniversary of Captain John Smith's early explorations in the Jamestown area less than two years, it was critical to move this legislation forward and I am pleased that this measure is being sent to President Bush for his endorsement," Sarbanes added. 
   Captain John Smith was one of America's earliest explorers. His role in the founding of Jamestown, Virginia - the first permanent English settlement in North America - and in exploring the Chesapeake Bay region during the years 1607 to 1609 marks a defining period in the history of our Nation. His contemporaries and historians alike credit Smith's strong leadership with ensuring the survival of the fledgling colony and laying the foundation for the future establishment of our Nation.
   With a dozen men in a 30-foot open boat, Smith's expeditions in search of food for the new colony and the fabled Northwest Passage took him nearly 3,000 miles around the Chesapeake Bay and its tributaries from the Virginia capes to the mouth of the Susquehanna. On his voyages and as President of the Jamestown Colony, Captain Smith became the first point of contact for scores of Native American leaders from around the Bay region. His relationship with Pocahontas is now an important part of American folklore. Smith's notes describing the indigenous people he met and the Chesapeake Bay ecosystem are still widely studied by historians, environmental scientists, and anthropologists.
   Contact: Jesse Jacobs, 202/224-4524.
 
 