SENATE COMMITTEE APPROVES FUNDING TO UPGRADE PUBLIC WATER SYSTEMS IN WESTERN MARYLAND
  Sens. Paul S. Sarbanes (D-MD) and Barbara A. Mikulski today announced that the Senate Appropriations Committee has approved the FY 2007 Department of Interior Appropriations bill, allocating $1.35 million for Western Maryland to upgrade its wastewater systems. 
   Many of these communities have combined wastewater and storm water sewer systems that, during wet weather conditions, discharge untreated water into local waterways, causing water quality and public health problems. Over the past six years the two Maryland Senators have secured more than $7 million to help Western Maryland communities improve their wastewater infrastructure. 
   "This funding will help improve the quality of life for the residents of Western Maryland by improving the quality of water that flows to the Potomac River, as well as aiding the overall Chesapeake Bay water clean-up efforts," said Sarbanes. 
   "Maryland cities and towns need to do the right thing by the environment by upgrading their water and sewer infrastructure - but they can't do it on their own," said Senator Mikulski. "That's why I have worked so hard to put money in the federal checkbook to create jobs, build communities and take care of our environment." 
   With the Committee approval of the 2007 Interior spending bill, Maryland communities will receive $2.35 million in grants for special-needs water and wastewater infrastructure improvements. These grants, known as "State and Tribal Assistance Grants" (STAG), are typically used for wastewater infrastructure improvements that reduce the amount of nutrients entering waterways and the associated health and environmental impacts.
   The following Western Maryland communities are noted in the spending bill to receive funding:
   * $500,000 for Frostburg for continued construction of combined sewer overflow project; 
   * $500,000 for Westernport for continued construction of combined sewer separation project; and 
   * $350,000 for Cumberland for continued upgrades to their wastewater treatment facilities.
   The bill now goes before the full Senate for approval and any differences must be reconciled with the House of Representatives before being sent to the President for signature. The FY 2007 fiscal year begins on October 1, 2006.
 
 