SENS. SARBANES, MIKULSKI ANNOUNCE APPROVAL OF FUNDING TO COMPLETE RESTORATION OF HISTORIC GLEN ECHO PARK
  Sens. Paul S. Sarbanes (D-MD) and Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) announced today that the Senate Appropriations Committee has approved $700,000 in the FY 2007 Department of Interior, Environment and Related Agencies Appropriations bill to complete the restoration of the historic Glen Echo Park.  
   Restoration efforts began in 1999 as a result of the Senators' ability to secure over $6 million in funding from FY 2000-2002. This final infusion of federal funds, in conjunction with State and local monies, will allow the National Park Service to complete the restoration of the Chautaugua Tower and Crystal Pool Fa?ade, the First-Aid Building and manage storm water at the site. 
   "I'm thrilled that the Committee has approved this funding to ensure the completion of the restoration of one of America's great historic and cultural treasures," said Sarbanes. "I have worked hard with Senator Mikulski to bring the magic back to Glen Echo and this funding will ensure that the fun and enjoyment the Park offers are here for generations to come."
   "Generations of Marylanders have enjoyed Glen Echo Park's magic and charm. I am so pleased to see us take the final step in restoration efforts to ensure that children and families can continue to delight in this Maryland treasure," said Senator Mikulski. "I salute my colleague, Senator Paul Sarbanes, for his hard work and support of Glen Echo Park."
   Glen Echo Park was originally established as part of the National Chautauqua Assembly in 1891 and was converted to an amusement in 1911. It included a Spanish Ballroom, the world's first Bumper Car Pavilion, Chautaugua Tower and the Dentzel Carousel among other attractions. The Park was acquired by the National Park Service in 1971 and listed as a historic district on the National Register of Historic Places in 1984. 
   The bill now goes before the full Senate for approval and any differences must be reconciled with the House of Representatives before being sent to the President for signature. The FY 2007 fiscal year begins on October 1, 2006.
   Contact: Jesse Jacobs and Andrew Burkowske, 202/224-4524.
 
 