SENS. SARBANES, MIKULSKI ANNOUNCE SELECTION OF UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND FOR UNIVERSITY TRANSPORTATION CENTER GRANT
  Sens. Paul S. Sarbanes (D-MD) and Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) today announced that the University of Maryland has been selected by the U.S. Department of Transportation as one of 10 Universities across the country to be designated a "Tier I University Transportation Center (UTC)." 
   The UTC Program was established in 1987 with the mission "to advance U.S. technology and expertise in the many disciplines comprising transportation through the mechanisms of education, research and technology transfer at university-based centers of excellence." Tier I UTCs are expected to work collaboratively with DOT and state and local transportation stakeholders, and provide leadership in making national and regional contributions to solving immediate and long-range transportation challenges.
   According to the U.S. Department of Transportation, a total of 36 universities applied for the four-year designation, which authorizes each of the selected universities to receive up to $1 million per year beginning in FY 2007. Federal UTC grants must be matched on a dollar-for-dollar basis with non-federal funding.
   "With Maryland and Washington area residents facing some of the longest commuting times in the Nation, I am very pleased that the University of Maryland has been chosen to lead local efforts in helping to address our short and long-term transportation needs," said Sarbanes. "The University of Maryland has been a national leader on so many fronts and this new funding as a University Transportation Center will further enhance its academic and research capabilities."
   "The University of Maryland is a world-class institution that can offer world-class solutions to our transportation problems. This designation is great news for the school and the entire state," said Senator Mikulski. "As a part of the UTC program, Marylanders can count on the Terrapins to help keep them on the move by improving congestion and safety on our regions roads and highways."
   Contact: Jesse Jacobs, 202/224-4524.
 
 