SEN. SARBANES HONORED FOR HIS WORK ON BEHALF OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT EFFORTS IN LOW INCOME, RURAL COMMUNITIES
  Sen. Paul S. Sarbanes (D-MD) has been honored with the Lifetime Achievement Award from the Local Initiatives Support Corporation (LISC) for his support over the years on behalf of community development and redevelopment efforts in low income and rural communities throughout the country. Sarbanes has served as a member of the Senate Banking Housing, and Urban Affairs Committee since coming to the United States Senate in 1977. He announced that he will not seek reelection in 2006. 
   Founded in 1980, the Local Initiatives Support Corporation (LISC) has been dedicated to helping low-income urban and rural communities transform themselves into healthy communities of choice and economic opportunity - good places to live, do business, work and raise families. Through mobilization of corporate, government, and philanthropic support, LISC has invested more than $6 billion in 300 urban and rural communities nationwide. LISC has helped community development corporations (CDCs) build more than 160,000 affordable homes and 25 million square feet of retail, community, and educational space - totaling nearly $14 billion in development.
   During his tenure as a member of the Senate Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs Committee, Sarbanes has been an active participant in every major effort dealing with housing to come before the Senate for over 20 years and has consistently worked to ensure that every American is able to obtain adequate and affordable housing. These efforts have included measures to increase opportunities for home ownership and to support a vibrant housing market. He has been closely involved in the development of legislation to address the shortage of affordable rental housing and programs to provide housing for people with special needs, including the elderly, the disabled, and the homeless.
   "LISC has been a pioneer in the field of community-based, non-profit housing and economic development," said Sarbanes. "LISC helped to bring the Community Development Corporations together and gave them a national voice in policy deliberations that they could not have achieved individually."
   Sarbanes went on to note that LISC "has played an important role in creating the HOME program and the low-income housing tax credit, and LISC has also made major contributions in protecting the Community Reinvestment Act, the Community Development Block Grant program and the HOPE VI program. These programs have, in turn, provided LISC with the tools it needs to create jobs, build affordable housing, create homeownership opportunities, and restore vitality to neighborhoods that had been deprived of resources and locked into cycles of despair."
   Contact: Jesse Jacobs, 202/224-4524.
 
 