SEN. SARBANES, REP. CARDIN: AT BIRTHPLACE OF OUR NATIONAL ANTHEM ? INTRODUCE LEGISLATION TO ESTABLISHM 'STAR SPANGLED BANNER TRAIL'
  Standing inside the walled compound of historic Fort McHenry in Baltimore, the site that withstood the British bombardment in 1814 and the site of the composition of our National Anthem, Sen. Paul S. Sarbanes (D-MD) and Rep. Ben Cardin (MD-3), joined by Baltimore City Mayor Martin O'Malley, announced the introduction of two pieces of federal legislation that would commemorate the bicentennial of the War of 1812 - America's Second War of Independence - and also highlight the historical significance of Maryland, Virginia, and the District of Columbia in the early struggles of our young Nation. 
   The first piece of legislation would establish the "Star Spangled Banner Trail" in the States of Maryland and Virginia and the District of Columbia as a National Historic Trail. The National Historic Trails system commemorates major routes of historic travel and mark major events that have shaped our American history. To date, 16 National Historic Trails have been established including the Lewis and Clark, the Pony Express, Selma to Montgomery, and Trail of Tears National Historic Trails. To be designated as a National Historic Trail, a trail must meet three basic criteria: it must be nationally significant, have a documented route through maps or journals, and provide recreational opportunities. 
   The sites along the National Historic Trail would mark some of the most important events of the War of 1812. The trail, commemorating the only combined naval and land attack on the United States, begins with the June 1814 battles between the British Navy and the American Chesapeake Flotilla in St. Leonard's Creek in Calvert County, and ends at Fort McHenry in Baltimore, site of the composition of our National Anthem, and the ultimate defeat of the British.
   "The designation of this route as a National Historic Trail will serve as a reminder of the importance of the concept of liberty to all who experience it," said Sarbanes. "The Star Spangled Banner National Historic Trail will also give long overdue recognition to those patriots whose determination to stand firm against enemy invasion and bombardment preserved this liberty for future generations of Americans."
   "The War of 1812 was one of the most important events in our nation's early history," said Congressman Ben Cardin. "I have long supported designating the Star Spangled Banner Trail as a National Historic Trail. As we approach the bicentennial of the War of 1812, the Star Spangled Banner Trail is a lasting legacy that all Americans can enjoy and one that highlights Maryland's rich heritage."
   The second piece of legislation being introduced by Sarbanes and Cardin would establish the "Star Spangled Banner and War of 1812 Bicentennial Commission Act" by creating a commission, made up in part by citizens from nine states and the District of Columbia, to ensure a suitable national observance of the War of 1812. The Commission is tasked with planning, encouraging, developing, executing and coordinating programs commemorating the historic events that preceded and are associated with the War of 1812. Among other things, the Commission is charged with facilitating this commemoration throughout the United States and internationally.
   "This legislation will help ensure that the upcoming bicentennial of the War of 1812 and the poem which became our National Anthem will be appropriately observed," Sarbanes added.
   Contact: Jesse Jacobs, 202/224-4524; Susan Sullam, 410/433-8886.
 
 