SEN. SARBANES SUPPORTS FUNDING FOR MARTIN LUTHER KING JR. NATIONAL MEMORIAL
  Sen. Paul S. Sarbanes (D-MD) strongly supported an amendment to the FY 2006 Department of Interior Appropriations bill providing $10 million for the proposed national memorial honoring the late civil rights leader, Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. The legislation was unanimously passed by the Senate on June 29. 
   Sarbanes' remarks follow:
   "I am very pleased to join in cosponsoring this amendment. I thank the Chairman and the ranking member of the Appropriations Committee for bringing this amendment forward. It is an enormously important contribution to the effort that is underway now to honor Dr. Martin Luther King, by placing his memorial between President Roosevelt's Memorial and the Lincoln Memorial on the National Mall. 
   "I thank the Senators for their kind comments. My dear friend from Virginia, Senator Warner, and I worked together on this project to help move it along. It has had overwhelming support in the Congress and in the country, but raising the money has been a difficult proposition. Let's be very clear about this-an enormous effort has gone into bringing this memorial to fruition and significant moneys have been raised. 
   "While we are not yet there, this amendment will provide a tremendous boost to the fundraising effort. It shows clearly the support of the Congress. Senator Cochran and Senator Byrd, by coming forward with the amendment, at this critical time, have given this entire effort an impetus, which will bring it to a successful conclusion. 
   "Interestingly enough, I, too, was there when Martin Luther King gave his 'I Have a Dream' speech that Mr. Warner, the able Senator from Virginia, referred to earlier. It was clearly a historic occasion that helped to shape the nature of our country for the better-much for the better. Dr. King fought to establish the proposition that people should be judged by their character and not by the color of their skin. He enunciated that principle time and time again. 
   "The other thing he did was he advocated his position in a nonviolent way. He asserted that in a democratic society, these goals could be achieved through peaceful means, through nonviolent means. He channeled the energy and the commitment that was devoted toward achieving racial equality in this country into peaceful paths. And our country has been much the better for his efforts. 
   "So much work has gone into this Memorial-first in getting it approved and then in finding the location for it on the National Mall. But, it has been worth the effort because when schoolchildren come to the Nation's Capital in the year's to come, part of their visit to Washington will involve a trip to the Martin Luther King Memorial. 
   "The plans that have been prepared are quite impressive. They will have an opportunity to visit that Memorial and to reflect upon the contribution which Dr. King made to our Nation: the healing he brought about, the realization of the American dream, that all of our people-all-have an opportunity to participate and to advance themselves and their families. 
   "So I join with my colleagues. I thank them for their very kind remarks. I appreciate the Senator from Virginia reminding us of the effort that went into helping bring us to this day. I especially again thank Senators Cochran and Byrd for coming forward with this amendment at a very critical time, to give an impetus to the effort to do the fundraising that is necessary to build this Memorial and to have, in effect, this national treasure on the Mall. 
   "Dr. King's statue is, of course, here in the Capitol, as we know. It is fitting now that we move beyond the Capitol and create this Memorial on the Mall in recognition of all he stood for and what he represented in terms of realizing the words and ideals embodied in the Declaration of Independence and the U.S. Constitution. 
   "I thank my colleagues very much."
   Contact: Jesse Jacobs, 202/224-4524.
 
 