SEN. SARBANES ANNOUNCES FUNDING TO ENHANCE VISITOR ACCESS TO PATUXENT WILDLIFE RESEARCH REFUGE
  Sen. Paul S. Sarbanes (D-MD) today announced that the Patuxent Wildlife Research Refuge will be receiving more than $108,000 as part of efforts to enhance visitor access to the world renowned research facility. The money will be used to upgrade and expand a two-mile tram tour route through the refuge. 
   The money announced by Sarbanes was part of a new Alternative Transportation In Parks and Public Lands (ATPPL) program which was established under the recently enacted 6-year highway and mass transit authorization bill. More than $20 million in federal funding was provided nationwide to support the development of mass transit and alternative transportation services for our national parks, wildlife refuges, federal recreational areas, and other public lands.
   Sarbanes was responsible for the creation of the ATPPL program nationwide, which is designed to ease traffic congestion and improve mobility and accessibility in our National Parks and Wildlife Refuges and, in turn, help to protect our Nation's natural resources. Programs will include rail lines, clean fuel buses, or pedestrian and bike paths.
   "As millions of visitors drive into our national parks each year, too many of them spend hours looking for parking, or staring at the bumper of the car in front of them," said Sarbanes. "I believe that we have a clear choice before us: we can turn paradise into a parking lot - or we can invest in alternatives. The projects receiving the first round of awards under this program represent very promising alternatives, and I hope that this new transit program will allow for more success stories in the future, so that we can enjoy our nation's natural treasures for many generations to come."
   Specifically for the Patuxent Wildlife Research Refuge, funding to upgrade the tram will provide the opportunity for all visitors to explore the Refuge's natural habitats and observe wildlife in a natural setting without physical exertion or disturbance to wildlife or habitats. The tram traverses a narrow dirt and gravel road through a variety of refuge habitats including wetlands, forests and meadows. The tram provides an environmentally friendly, quiet tour of the natural and managed habitats of the Refuge, while also showcasing the use of clean alternative energy.
   "This new effort will help to improve the visitor experience at this world renowned research facility," added Sarbanes. "With so much going on at Patuxent and its close proximity to the cities of both Baltimore and Washington, this improved tram network will enable thousands more visitors each year to view these natural habitats and wildlife up close without significantly disturbing the ongoing research efforts."
   Contact: Jesse Jacobs, 202/224-4524.
 
 