SENS. SARBANES, MIKULSKI ANNOUNCE CONGRESSIONAL APPROVAL OF FUNDING FOR TWO BALTIMORE AREA PROJECTS
  Sens. Paul S. Sarbanes (D-MD) and Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) announced that both the House and Senate have given final approval and sent to President Bush for his signature the Department of Interior Appropriations bill for fiscal year 2006. Included in the bill is funding for two Baltimore area projects: 
   * $300,000 has been allocated as part of the Save America's Treasures campaign for the restoration of the historic Mt. Royal Station and Train Shed in Baltimore. Designated a National Landmark in 1976, the 109 year old Mt. Royal Station made enduring contributions to America's history of railroading and the train shed is one of the country's last remaining shed structures. Built in 1896 for the B&O Railroad, the Mt. Royal Station set the standard for train travel at the turn of the 20th century, creating the most luxurious passenger waiting rooms of the time. In the early 1960s, passenger service ceased. The Mt. Royal Station was rescued from possible demolition by the Maryland Institute College of Art and has been a lynchpin in the revitalization of the Mt. Royal area. Funding will be used to aid in further renovation efforts and help return the interior and exterior of the station to a condition worthy of this landmark; and 
   * $250,000 has been approved in the bill for the continuation of the Baltimore Urban Watershed Forest Research and Demonstration Project Cooperative. The goal of the Research Cooperative - a partnership between the Parks and People Foundation, Baltimore City, the National Science Foundation, the Maryland Forest Service and others is to support urban reforestation efforts and help revitalize older communities in Baltimore. Through previous appropriations, the Cooperative was able to help restore a 900-acre storm drain watershed in west and southwest Baltimore. This new infusion of funding will enable the Research Cooperative to undertake a similar urban watershed restoration effort in a larger watershed of 1200 acres on the east side of Baltimore. 
   "The inclusion of specific funding for these two projects helps to highlight our on-going commitment to restoration efforts in the City of Baltimore - whether they are buildings or waterways," said Sarbanes. "These projects help to revitalize the City and improve its attractiveness as a City that cares about its green space, the facades of its physical structures and its overall quality of life."
   "I am proud to be from a city with such a rich history and culture as Baltimore has," said Senator Barbara A. Mikulski. "But in order to preserve our past for generations to come, we need a federal investment in places like the Mount Royal Station and Train Shed. I am proud to have gone to work in the Senate to restore, refresh and revitalize our local treasures."
   Contact: Jesse Jacobs, 202/224-4524, http://sarbanes.senate.gov
 
 