SEN. SARBANES ISSUES STATEMENT ON ?BANK SECRECY ACT ENFORCEMENT' BEFORE SENATE COMMITTEE ON BANKING, HOUSING AND URBAN AFFAIRS
  Statement of Senator Paul S. Sarbanes (D-MD) before Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs "Bank Secrecy Act Enforcement"
   Thank you very much Mr. Chairman and let me say that I share your commitment to strong oversight by this Committee of the agencies under our jurisdiction and, in particular, this focus on administration and enforcement of the Bank Secrecy Act (BSA). 
   The President speaks often about the war on terrorism and again and again people say that an essential part of the war against terrorism is to dry up the financial resources that the terrorist networks gain access to which enable them to carry out their activities. The BSA is part of that effort. But the effectiveness of the BSA, and the priority the bank regulators and the Treasury Department give to its enforcement, is regrettably an open question underscored by the failures of compliance and regulatory oversight at Riggs Bank and other institutions.
   OCC examiners outlined problems in Riggs' BSA compliance and anti-money laundering procedures as early as 1997. But despite Riggs' well-known special circumstances, in terms of its clients, the examiners failed to discover widespread non-compliance with the BSA. It was not until late 2002 that OCC examiners began seriously to test transactions to see if the Riggs program was actually producing results. We now know that it was not.
   Throughout much of the same period, federal counter-terrorism and law enforcement officials were involved in investigations involving accounts of some of Riggs' largest customers. And the Federal Reserve Board was conducting parallel oversight because of its jurisdiction over the Riggs holding company and Edge Act subsidiary. It is not clear when the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, which is said to administer the BSA and ultimately issued a concurrent $25 million penalty assessment with the OCC against Riggs, first learned of Riggs' compliance problem. Clearly there was no coordinated federal regulatory effort relating to the audit and investigation of Riggs.
   The Riggs situation is serious enough in itself. But it may reflect a broader structural problem. 
   No one seems to be directly accountable for enforcement of the BSA. Congress vested authority for the BSA's administration and enforcement in the Secretary of the Treasury, who has delegated that authority, since 1994, to the Director of FinCEN. The federal banking agencies examine the compliance of depository institutions with the BSA, under authority delegated by Treasury. But they also have a separate statutory obligation to examine for BSA compliance procedures, employing a different set of sanctions than the statutory BSA penalties.
   The list of agencies involved in potential BSA compliance problems does not end there. Federal enforcement and, now, intelligence agencies - for example the FBI, the Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the Drug Enforcement Administration, and the Criminal Investigation Division of the Internal Revenue Service - investigate potential BSA violations in the course of their activities. State bank regulators have their own oversight authority that extends to the BSA in the case of state chartered institutions. Different regulators may regulate different parts of increasingly integrated bank holding companies. Treasury, through FinCEN, will become involved in compliance penalties only in a limited number of situations in which cases are referred to it under procedures that, according to today's testimony, are more than a decade old.
   I am also concerned about the nature of the bank examination procedures themselves in this area. Today's testimony indicates that the bank examiners review procedures and systems in their money laundering compliance examinations. They rarely test transactions to see if the procedures or systems are working. It's a little bit like going into a room and seeing that the furniture is all in place, but not placing any weight on the furniture to see whether it will sustain this distress; it could all be hollow.
   I am also concerned about reports that compliance examiners, generally at the OCC, FDIC, and OTS, have been made subordinate to safety and soundness examiners. This would affect not only BSA, but also other critical compliance areas, including consumer protection. 
   The unfortunate lesson of the Riggs case seems to be that, despite the attention paid to improving the statutory tools given to the Treasury and to law enforcement in the PATRIOT ACT and prior legislation, the BSA is not really "administered" at all in any coordinated way. Again, no one seems to be responsible for putting the statute into effect. 
   I hope that today's hearing can force accelerated discussion of these issues and place them at the top of the anti-money laundering and counter-terrorism financing agenda. 
   I also want to get a better sense from our witnesses of how uniformly they are enforcing the BSA and the anti-money laundering laws. It is my understanding that last week Comptroller Hawke sent a memorandum to the OCC's bank examiners reminding them of their responsibilities in this area and I look forward to hearing what our other financial regulators are actually doing and how seriously they take this issue. 
   A number of far reaching proposals are now being made. One was to create a separate BSA audit and enforcement force at the Treasury. Another would be to create a joint BSA audit authority under the supervision of the banking regulators staffed by experienced examiners whose career ladders call for rotation into the unit for several years and who audit institutions other than those supervised by their home agencies. Another possibility is retaining the present system, but requiring FinCEN, so long as it is the administrator of the BSA, to receive the portion of each examination report dealing with BSA matters to participate in the determination of action to take in response to deficiencies. 
   Another possibility would be to delegate full BSA penalty and administrative authority to the bank regulators together with mandated reporting to Treasury, while yet another would be to mandate transaction testing and other upgraded examination procedures for BSA examination. 
   I think it is very clear that the current system is not working the way it ought to be working. The Fed imposed these penalties on UBS AG for conducting illegal currency transactions with four countries, a $100 million fine by the Federal Reserve Board. Our colleague, Representative Sue Kelly, the Chair of the House Financial Services Oversight Committee, called this sanction a "mere slap on the wrist." There is very deep concern here in the Congress about the effectiveness of our fight against terrorist financing and beyond - for it also involves organized crime and drug cartels. And there is not a sense that the agencies are fully reporting for duty with respect to this important issue.
 
 