SEN. SARBANES INTRODUCES LEGISLATION TO CREATE NORTH-SOUTH HIGHWAY CORRIDOR IN ALLEGANY COUNTY
  Sen. Paul S. Sarbanes (D-MD) today introduced legislation that would create a new 35-mile north-south highway corridor in Allegany County and West Virginia as part of the Appalachian Development Highway System (ADHS). 
   Specifically, the legislation would provide for the construction of a new 35.5-mile highway, extending 15 miles south from I-68 in Cumberland to the Maryland-West Virginia state line and then an additional 20.5 miles from the state line to the Town of Scherr in West Virginia. The new roadway could include upgrades and or relocation in Maryland of US 220 from I-68, via MD 53 to the West Virginia line and then upgrades in West Virginia as well.
   "The development of a north-south Appalachian highway corridor has long been a priority of elected officials, community leaders and citizens in the Potomac Highlands region of Western Maryland, West Virginia and Pennsylvania," said Sarbanes. "These upgrades would increase safety, alleviate traffic congestion and serve as an economic development engine between Cumberland and Keyser in Western Maryland, an area that has been targeted for job growth as part of the 'One Maryland' economic development program." 
   At least two Maryland State economic development task forces over the last decade have identified a north-south corridor as their leading priority for the region. In order to help determine the need, potential alignments as well as the projected economic benefits and the social, transportation and environmental impacts of upgrading north-south corridors, six years ago, Sarbanes helped secure a grant from the Federal Highway Administration to support a multi-state study. That study was completed in 2001 and identified two corridors as having the greatest potential for benefiting Appalachian economic development - the US 219 Corridor in the north from I-68 in Maryland to the Pennsylvania Turnpike and the US 220 Corridor in south from Corridor H in West Virginia to I-68 in Maryland. The study also found that upgrading US 220 South of Interstate 68 would support the largest number of potential new jobs (7,800 - 8,600 jobs) with the highest relative growth - 19 percent - of any of the corridors and have fewer impacts than the alternatives.
   Over the past four years, and with additional funding provided by the Congress in the Fiscal 2003 Transportation Appropriations bill, Maryland and West Virginia have been undertaking a detailed project-planning phase of the 35.5-mile segment of US 220 south that was recommended in the feasibility study. Improvements which have been proposed include a four-lane divided highway, most of which would be on a new alignment, with at-grade intersections. 
   The corridor would interconnect several important ADHS corridors including the East-West Corridors P in Pennsylvania, E (I-68) in Maryland & West Virginia, H in West Virginia and Virginia along with the ADHS North-South Corridor O and Corridor N from Pennsylvania to the North. Currently ARC Corridors O & N dead end at I-68, and the closest interstate quality road continuing south is I-81 seventy miles east, or I-79 that is seventy miles to the west.
   "This new Appalachian highway would also provide important linkages to the bi-state (Maryland and West Virginia) Greater Cumberland Airport, rail facilities in the area, and population centers of Cumberland, Maryland, Keyser, West Virginia, Romney, West Virginia, and Moorefield, West Virginia," Sarbanes added.
   Senator Barbara Mikulski (D-MD) is also a co-sponsor of the legislation.
   Contact: Jesse Jacobs, 202/224-4524
 
 