SEN. SARBANES AWARD HONORS LOCAL DEVELOPER
  Michael T. Rose, president and founder of the Michael T. Rose Family of Companies, will receive the first annual Paul Sarbanes Award for Excellence in Community Service on May 2, 2005 at the Affordable Housing Conference of Montgomery County. Themed "Work Here? Live Where?" the all-day event will be held at the Bethesda North Marriott Conference Center. 
   According to conference co-chairs Barbara Goldberg Goldman and Norman Dreyfuss, the honor will be bestowed each year to an individual who has demonstrated unselfish, long-standing commitment and dedication to improving the quality of life in his or her own community. "Michael T. Rose certainly represents such an individual, and is a befitting first recipient for this very prestigious award," said Goldberg Goldman. "For more than three decades, Rose and his firm have gained national recognition, wide respect and received numerous awards and accolades."
   Senator Sarbanes remarked: "As one who has dedicated his career to public service, I deeply appreciate the Montgomery County Affordable Housing Conference naming an award in my honor that recognizes those who have been exemplary in giving back to the community. Michael T. Rose is a most deserving first recipient of his Community Service Award. He has been a champion in his commitment to expand housing opportunities for disabled Americans and for his foresight in realizing that housing development and care for the environment go hand-in-hand."
   Rose has been building and developing residential and mixed-use planned communities as well as custom homes in suburban Maryland and Virginia since 1975, adding well over $2 billion to the combined local and state tax bases of both states. He is nationally regarded as a leader in developing communities and creating homes that are environmentally sound and built in harmony with nature and their natural surroundings. 
   "Michael has the unique distinction of being a builder and developer who environmentalists love," said HOC Co-Chair Norman Dreyfuss. "He has also used his personal experience with his disability to benefit so many others." 
   Rose is an active supporter of efforts to find a cure for paralysis and spinal cord injuries. He served for 10 years on the board of directors of the American Paralysis Association (APA) and was past president of the APA's Washington Chapter. He is a founding director for the National Coordinating Council on Spinal Cord Injury and served for eight years on the Board of Directors for the National Organization on Disabilities.
   Rose has also served as Chairman of the President's Advisory Committee on Housing for Handicapped Families for the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, and has earned a certificate of Special Recognition for this service.
   Contact: Suzanne Gunther, 301/365-2662, Suzanne_gunther@yahoo.com.
 
 