SEN. SARBANES REACTS TO DISMAL JOB PERFORMANCE NUMBERS
  Sen. Paul S. Sarbanes (D-MD) delivered the following remarks at a press conference in the United States Capitol today in response to the announcement that a mere 96,000 jobs were created last month. It is estimated that the economy requires approximately 150,000 new jobs per month just to keep up with population job growth. 
   "The unemployment numbers released this morning are a cause for real concern. We had job growth about 96,000. The expectation had been 150,000. Even at 150,000, you're only keeping pace with population growth, so you're not actually reducing the numbers of the unemployed. And as it turned out, they came in with 96,000. The unemployment rate stayed at the same level. But if you factor in people who have dropped out of the work force because they're so discouraged and they're not seeking jobs, plus people who are working part-time but want to work full-time, the unemployment rate is 9.4 percent.
   "Furthermore, and a point I really want to make very strongly, is that this is the first Administration since Herbert Hoover not to create a net gain in jobs in the course of its Administration. There are still 825,000 jobs less than when this administration came into office. And we have to go all the way back to the Hoover Administration to find an Administration in which there was a failure to create net jobs.
   "The other point I want to make is about the long-term unemployed. We have been making an effort here in the Congress to extend unemployment insurance benefits to help the long-term unemployed. More than 20 percent of the unemployed are long-term unemployed. And that's been the case now for two years, for 24 months. We do not have a previous period for which the percentage of long-term unemployed stayed above the 20 percent figure for 24 months, which has been the case under President George W. Bush. And it only underscores how important it has been and continues to be to extend the unemployment insurance."
   Contact: Jesse Jacobs and Andrew Burkowske, 202/224-4524.
 
 