SEN. SARBANES ADDRESSES NEW REALITY OF CURRENT VISA POLICY ON INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS AND RESEARCHERS
  STATEMENT OF SENATOR PAUL S. SARBANES (D-MD) SENATE COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN RELATIONS
   I want to thank you for scheduling this hearing. I think it is a very important matter. The U.S. projects its strength around the world in many dimensions - obviously, the military, but also the economic, the diplomatic and the political. Our extraordinary system of higher education, which I think is unparalleled in the world, is an integral part of that strength.  
   It offers incomparable opportunities to students and scholars at every level. And since the end of World War II especially, we have drawn talented, hard-working, often visionary men and women from virtually every corner of the world to these institutions of higher education. In some cases they stay here, they become part of our scholarly community, a community that plays a vital role in training and educating the next generation and in laying the foundations for our economic prosperity. More often they return to their country of origin, taking with them the training they have acquired here, and the experience, I think, of being part of an intellectual community defined by the highest standards. They have lived and worked in a climate of free and open inquiry and debate. I think that better serves our national interest very frankly. 
   We have of course realized that over the past three years our visa policies have been markedly revised to reflect our urgent security concerns. Application procedures take longer; they are more complex, more expensive and in some instances, regrettably, they seem to be arbitrary. As a consequence, institutions from across the country, as has happened here this morning, are reporting a decline in applications, admissions and enrollments. 
   The Chronicle of Higher Education did a recent survey showing foreign student enrollment in the United States is, in effect, leveling off while in Australia, the United Kingdom, and Canada it is jumping in very significant numbers. So it seems apparent that there has been a shift in where these able students are going. 
   It does raise the question whether we can maintain our preeminence among the world's institutions of higher education. Secretary of State Powell, last spring, said that we must do a more skillful job of attracting foreign students to our colleges and universities. The Secretary's comment came as 25 science, higher education, and engineering groups, representing some 95 percent of the nation's research community, joined in proposing revisions to end what they called "the visa-processing quagmire." 
   I quote from that report and actually NAFSA, the Association of International Educators, which is on our second panel, was one of the signatories to that report and they said, "We are resolute in our support of a secure visa system and believe that a more efficient system is a more secure one. We are also confident that it is possible to have a visa system that is timely and transparent, that provides for thorough review of visa applicants, and that still welcomes the brightest minds in the world." 
   Mr. Chairman I want to commend you and I think that we have been fortunate in having these three distinguished university presidents before us this morning. Both Purdue and Indiana, of course, have drawn students from abroad in very significant numbers. They are located out in the heartland of our country, but they have a very strong international dimension. The University of Maryland College Park is the flagship institution in my state's University System. College Park plays an absolutely indispensable role in the intellectual, research and economic infrastructure of our state and indeed our nation.
 
 