SEN. SARBANES JOINS IN URGING SENATE APPROPRIATIONS COMMITTEE TO RESTORE FUNDING FOR APPALACHIAN REGIONAL COMMISSION
  Sen. Paul S. Sarbanes (D-MD) has joined 11 of his colleagues in the United States Senate in sending a letter to the leaders of the Senate Appropriations Committee urging them to include $92 million in its 2006 budget for the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC). The Commission provides federal funding to improve the quality of life in Appalachia. The three Western Maryland counties of Allegany, Garrett, and Washington all rely on ARC funding for economic development, road, sewer, health, small business and other quality of life improvement projects. Many federally funded projects are matched by State and local funds. 
   In his 2006 budget, President Bush included only $66.5 million for the Appalachian Regional Commission, a funding level equal to 2005. However, the House of Representatives on May 24 voted to cut the ARC budget to $38.5 million, severely jeopardizing many new projects throughout Western Maryland and the entire Appalachian region.
   In their letter to the leadership of the Appropriations Subcommittee that has funding jurisdiction over the ARC budget, the Senators wrote, that "since ARC's creation, the poverty rate has been cut in half (in the entire Appalachian region), the infant mortality rate has been reduced by two-thirds, and the percentage of adults with high school education has increased by over 70%. ARC-funded health clinics have improved access to health care across the region, and ARC-funded projects have provided more than 800,000 Appalachians access to clean water and sanitation facilities. Moreover, approximately 1.6 million jobs have been created in Appalachia as a result of ARC activities in the region."
   "ARC has been extremely helpful with economic development efforts in Western Maryland," said Sarbanes. "Without the restoration of this needed funding I fear that we may lose the momentum we have gained over the years in bringing new jobs and quality of life improvements to these Western Maryland counties."
   What follows is a sampling of ARC funded projects in Western Maryland:
   * Allegany County
   $495,000 - to provide high-speed Internet access which is necessary to attract and retain small and medium sized businesses and develop business and economic opportunities;
   $430,000 - for the construction of a local access road off of MD Route 956 into the newly developed Barton Business Park; 
   $400,000 - as part of the Allegany Highlands Trail Project for the construction of 5.8 miles of recreational trail from Frostburg to Mount Savage as part of continuing efforts to create "rail to trail" network from Washington, DC to Pittsburgh, PA; and 
   $350,000 - to help construct flood protection infrastructure in the Upper Potomac Industrial Park.
   * Garrett County
   $1,000,000 - to help design and build a multi-purpose trade/enterprise center that will assist small and emerging business enterprises by providing the county with a facility to host trade shows, exhibits, and cultural activities;
   $750,000 - to construct a sewer system for the new 385-acre Keysers Ridge Business Park;
   $250,000 - to repair and upgrade a failing sewer system in the Town of Accident; and
   $110,000 - of which $60,000 will be used to assist in the design of a new Entrepreneurial Center in Oakland which will house a micro-business assistance center, an artisan's co-operative and commercial kitchen, as well as office and retail space; and $50,000, will be used for the construction of a multi-purpose community center. The center will host after-school programs, senior citizen and adult education classes, and health education and awareness seminars and also be used as a blood donation facility for the American Red Cross.
   * Washington County
   $40,000 - for Hagerstown Community College's Job Training Institute; and 
   $24,000 - for the Hagerstown 2006 Comprehensive Plan project - approximately 100 residents will be involved in the planning process, preparation of the comprehensive plan, and development of an inventory of existing resources (assets) and facilities.
   Contact: Jesse Jacobs and Andrew Burkowske, 202/224-4524.
 
 