SEN. SARBANES SPEAKS AT UNITED NATIONS ASSOCIATION LUNCHEON
  Senator Paul S. Sarbanes (D-MD)
  Remarks at United Nations Association Luncheon:
   Thank you, Bill, for that kind introduction. 
   I am very happy to be with you today. It was an honor to receive the UNA's Congressional Leadership Award last October, and it is truly a pleasure to be once again in the company of so many thoughtful and hard-working men and women who share an abiding commitment to strengthening the United Nations and the United States' role in it. 
   Although last year marked the 60th anniversary of the founding of the United Nations, we do well to remember that the United Nations Association - UNA - is even older. Its roots date back to 1943 - before the founding of the U.N., before the San Francisco Conference, before the Dumbarton Oaks Conference. 
   In fact, the founding of the UNA coincided with the first congressional measures in support of a United Nations organization - a bipartisan resolution introduced in March of that year by Senators Ball of Minnesota, Hill of Alabama, Burton of Ohio and Hatch of New Mexico. Subsequently William Fulbright and Tom Connally introduced resolutions in the House and Senate, respectively. 
   The Connally Resolution, which became the touchstone for U.S. participation in - U.S. leadership in - the establishment of the U.N., read in part: 
   "That the United States, acting through its constitutional processes, join with free and sovereign nations in the establishment and maintenance of international authority with power to prevent aggression and to preserve the peace of the world" and - 
   "That the Senate recognizes the necessity of there being established at the earliest practicable date a general international organization, based on the principle of the sovereign equality of all peace-loving states, and open to membership by all such states, large and small, for the maintenance of international peace and security."
   From the very beginning UNA saw clearly that without broad-based public support, the U.S. engagement in the U.N. would founder. UNA therefore undertook from the beginning a great range of education programs to make the U.N. a familiar and welcome presence in Americans' lives. That commitment has never wavered. Today it lies at the heart of UNA's strategic plan:
   "To educate, mobilize and inspire Americans to support the principles and vital work of the United Nations, to strengthen the United Nations system, and to press for constructive United States leadership in that system." 
   Repeatedly the U.N. has enabled us to leverage our resources and influence in order to assure a much greater impact at lesser cost than our unilateral action could achieve. By working skillfully through the United Nations we have again and again won broad international endorsement for U.S. policies, which then become the judgement of the entire community rather than the wishes of the U.S. alone - a mandate on the part of the international community and not merely the U.S. seeking to impose its own point of view on a particular situation.
   Our need for the United Nations and the U.N.'s need for constructive U.S. leadership have always been mutually reinforcing, and they have never been greater than they are today. The most urgent problems we face - terrorism, proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, poverty, disease, environmental degradation - are not amenable to unilateral solutions, not even by the world's single acknowledged super-power. On our own we cannot beat back a flu pandemic or guarantee the integrity of the nuclear non-proliferation treaty. 
   These and many other problems facing us require the cooperative and collective effort of the international community. The United Nations is foremost among the institutions we have established to advance that effort. As Brian Urquhart put it at the 50th anniversary ceremonies: "The U.N. is primarily a blueprint for a better world."
   Those who are skeptical of the U.N. would do well to contemplate how the world would have fared in the latter half of the 20th century without it. I am always struck by colleagues who savage the U.N. and then turn around, when a particular situation arises, and say: "The U.N. should do something about this." Darfur is an example of this inconsistency.
   To give you an idea of the environment in which we are working, on March 16, an amendment to the FY 2007 budget resolution was offered late in the evening, which sought to cut $4 million for the newly formed and vastly improved U.N. Human Rights Council. This Council came about as a result of General Assembly President Jan Eliasson's best efforts, and was approved by a vote of 170-4. Regrettably, we were one of the four. On the evening of this amendment, I was by sheer good fortune on the Senate floor and was able to convince enough colleagues of the harm of the amendment that it ultimately failed by a vote of 50 to 50. This vote serves as a reminder all of us of the challenges facing the U.N. in Congress right now.
   One of the greatest challenges we will face in the upcoming months is legislation to require withholding of U.S. dues to the U.N. The House version of the bill, which passed by a vote of 221-184, requires mandatory withholding of dues, while the Senate bill leaves withholding to the discretion of the Administration. If you examine the House vote - 221-184 - you will realize that had 19 votes been different, the bill would have failed. 19 votes - just five percent of the House. This underscores the importance of your ongoing contact with Members of Congress.
   I believe both withholding bills are contrary to common sense and national interest at a time when the U.N. is moving forward with a major reform program. But we are facing an uphill battle - the Administration has endorsed the discretionary version of the bill and there are only a small number of Democrats who stand with me in opposing withholdings outright. Perhaps the intention of these bills is to bend the United Nations to our will, but the effect will rather be to isolate us and diminish our influence.
   How did we arrive where we are today? First and foremost, we are represented at the United Nations by a person who was given a recess appointment by the President because he could not win confirmation in the U.S. Senate. This is a person who has made contempt for the U.N., and for international law generally, a cornerstone of his career. This is the person who said in his testimony before the Foreign Relations Committee two weeks ago today that he has seen "no real notable successes so far" with respect to U.N. reform, and acknowledged only reluctantly and upon my urging the many reform goals already met - from the creation of a Peacebuilding Commission to the establishment of a whistleblower protection policy that is now a model for organizations across the globe. This is the person who has pushed aggressively for a UN force in Darfur while endorsing a U.S. budget that under-funds our treaty obligations in the area of peacekeeping by more than $500 million in 2006.
   If today the U.N. faces challenges, that is hardly new. The issue has always been whether in effect to withdraw by seeking out ways to undermine and weaken it, or whether to take a leading role in strengthening the institution, at the same time strengthening our own stature in it. 
   UNA-USA has never wavered in its commitment to mobilizing the public support we must have if we are to succeed in our efforts to build "a stronger, more effective U.N. through constructive U.S. leadership." I applaud what you have accomplished with programs as diverse as community-based chapters and campus-based Model U.N. programs, the Business Council for the United Nations, the United Nations Foundation, and the Better World Campaign. I applaud your new initiatives, like the "Don't Shut Down the U.N." campaign, and the Center on the Study of the United Nations at the John C. Whitehead School of Diplomacy and International Relations at Seton Hall University. Above all I salute the vision and determination that are reflected in your strategic plan. 
   In closing, I would reassert that this is a time of significant challenge for the U.N. in Congress. It is distressing to me that the country that effectively established the U.N., that had a vision and carried it out, has to have a campaign not to shut down the U.N. But do not be discouraged - there is also hope. We saw this on May 3, when the Senate approved an amendment to the supplemental, to add $60 million for U.N. peacekeeping, bringing the total in the bill to $129.8 million. I cosponsored this amendment and urged conferees to maintain these funds in the final conference report. I am happy to report today that the funds were indeed included in the final bill.
   Thank you for being here today. I look forward to continuing our work together.
 
 