SENS. SARBANES, MIKULSKI ANNOUNCE TWO SOUTHERN MARYLAND PROJECT TO RECEIVE FEDERAL FUNDING OF SMALL WATERSHED GRANTS
  Sens. Paul S. Sarbanes (D-MD) and Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) announced today two organizations in Southern Maryland are among 38 statewide recently chosen to receive funding from federal agencies as part of the Chesapeake Bay Program's Small Watershed Grants initiative. This program is intended to help local groups preserve and restore stream corridors in the Chesapeake Bay watershed. A grand total of more than $1 million was awarded to the 38 Maryland recipients this year.  
   "These small grants are making a big difference in promoting citizen-based stewardship and helping to repair degraded watersheds throughout the Chesapeake Bay basin," said Senator Sarbanes. "And who better to do this work than local community groups - the river organizations, schools, scouts, home owner associations, land trusts - who have the local knowledge, energy and passion to care for their streams and natural resources - or the local governments which are responsible for local land use and other important decisions."
   "Maryland communities want to stand up for the health of the Chesapeake Bay, but they can't do it on their own," said Senator Mikulski. "The Small Watershed Grants are a federal investment in helping communities protect and preserve the Bay."
   The Southern Maryland organizations to receive funding are:
   * The Southern Maryland Resource Conservation and Development, Inc., in partnership with the Port Tobacco River Conservancy and the Center for Watershed Protection, will use a $35,000 grant to develop a Baseline Characterization and Community Outreach Campaign for the first portion of the Port Tobacco River watershed management plan initiative. A septic system survey will be conducted and the results will be used to create targeted septic system outreach materials. Two training workshops will be conducted on potential topics such as illicit discharge detection and unified stream assessment; and
   * The University of Maryland Center for Environmental Science, the Chesapeake Bay Biological Laboratory and the Maryland Sea Grant Extension Program will join to use $50,000 to restore degraded aquatic habitats of Sandy Point, Solomons Island, Maryland. Breakwaters will be created to dissipate wave energy, oyster reefs will be established behind each breakwater and along the shoreline and submerged aquatic vegetation will be planted.
   Contact: Jesse Jacobs and Andrew Burkowske, 202/224-4524.
 
 