SENS. SARBANES, MIKULSKI ANNOUNCE NEARLY $3 MILLION IN FEDERAL FUNDING FOR UPGRADES TO EASTERN SHORE WATER TREATMENT FACILITIES
  Sens. Paul S. Sarbanes (D-MD) and Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) today announced that the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) has awarded the both Somerset County and Kent County federal funds to upgrade their sewer and water treatment facilities. 
   Under the USDA's Rural Development Project a loan of $2,770,900 has been secured for Somerset County for re-routing the existing water and sewer system in northern Princess Anne. The existing wastewater treatment facility exceeds its original design capacity and the new system will improve efficiency, water quality, and reduce environmental pollution. 
   Kent County will receive a loan in the amount of $111,390 and a Water and Waste Disposal Grant of $40,460 to make improvements to existing pumping station #2 at the Quaker Neck Facility in Chestertown. These upgrades are needed in order to meet discharge requirements from the State of Maryland Department of the Environment. 
   "These funds from the Department of Agriculture are important to ongoing economic development efforts throughout Maryland," said Sarbanes. "These projects, when completed, will help improve the quality of life by providing a safer water supply, as well as aiding the overall Chesapeake Bay water clean-up efforts."
   "Maryland communities need assistance to ensure the quality of their sewer and water treatment facilities," said Senator Mikulski. "This federal funding will give us a 'double value' for the taxpayer dollar. These upgrades will make the systems safer and preserve their limited resources to deliver clean and safe drinking water to our faucets."
   The USDA's Rural Development Program's aim is to help the people of rural America develop sustainable communities and improve their quality of life through guaranteed loans, grants, technical assistance, research and educational materials.
   Contact: Jesse Jacobs and Andrew Burkowske, 202/224-4524.
 
 