SENS. SARBANES, MIKULSKI ANNOUNCE FEDERAL FUNDING FOR BALTIMORE COUNTY POLICE DEPARTMENT
  Sens. Paul S. Sarbanes (D-MD) and Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) today announced that the Baltimore County Police Department has been awarded a total of $750,000 in new grant funding for the hiring of six additional community police officers to work in local schools. This grant comes from the Office of Community Oriented Policing Services' (COPS) COPS in Schools program, which is administered by the Department of Justice. 
   COPS in Schools is a nationwide program that provides grant money to pay for the salary and benefits of each new officer for over three years. The program allows police officers to establish a visible presence in schools as well as perform a variety of functions within those schools. Teaching crime-prevention and substance abuse, monitoring troubled students, and building respect between law enforcement and students are but a few of the goals achieved by this program. 
   "Combining community policing and education is an excellent way to help prevent school violence, as well as reduce crime in our local communities," said Sarbanes. "These officers serve both as mentors and protectors and help to make our schools a safe environment for learning."
   "This federal funding will enable the Baltimore County Police Department hire six new community police officers to work in our schools. They will become important role models for our children, helping them to get ahead. Ten years ago, I fought to for additional federal funding for programs like this one to increase the number of officers in our communities and in our schools to help protect our children and reduce crime. I am proud to be a part of this local-federal partnership," said Senator Mikulski, who serves on the Senate Subcommittee that funds the Department of Justice and its COPS program.
   The Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) has awarded almost $748 million to more than 3,000 law enforcement agencies to fund over 6,500 school resource officers (SROs) through the COPS in Schools (CIS) program.
   Contact: Jesse Jacobs and Andrew Burkowske, 202/224-4524.
 
 