SENS. SARBANES, MIKULSKI ANNOUNCE RECIPIENTS OF SMALL WATERSHED GRANTS
  Sens. Paul S. Sarbanes (D-MD) and Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) announced today that 2 organizations throughout Western Maryland were among 38 statewide recently chosen to receive funding from federal agencies as part of the Chesapeake Bay Program's Small Watershed Grants initiative. This program is intended to help local groups preserve and restore stream corridors in the Chesapeake Bay watershed. A grand total of more than $1 million was awarded to the 38 Maryland recipients this year.  
   "These small grants are making a big difference in promoting citizen-based stewardship and helping to repair degraded watersheds throughout the Chesapeake Bay basin," said Senator Sarbanes. "And who better to do this work than local community groups - the river organizations, schools, scouts, home owner associations, land trusts - who have the local knowledge, energy and passion to care for their streams and natural resources - or the local governments which are responsible for local land use and other important decisions."
   "Maryland communities want to stand up for the health of the Chesapeake
  Bay, but they can't do it on their own," said Senator Mikulski. "The Small Watershed Grants are a federal investment in helping communities protect and preserve the Bay."
   Those Western Maryland projects receiving funding are:
   * The Antietam Watershed Association will use a $100,000 Community Legacy Grant to develop an outreach campaign for the Mennonite community and restore riparian buffers within the Antietam watershed. Farmers will be educated about and encouraged to participate in the Chesapeake Bay Foundation's Farm Stewardship Program. The Antietam Watershed Association will provide farmers with materials to fence cattle from 6 miles of stream and restore or enhance 50 acres of riparian buffer and 10 acres of wetlands. A detailed assessment of an urban sub-watershed will also be conducted to identify storm water management opportunities; and
   * The Western Maryland Resource Conservation and Development has been awarded $45,000 to implement water quality monitoring programs at three sites affected by acid mine drainage in the Kempton Mine Complex, Maryland. Long-term solutions to the water-quality problem caused by abandoned mines will be investigated. A "technology transfer" program and education materials will be created for local-decision makers, power companies, engineers and contractors.
   Contact: Jesse Jacobs and Andrew Burkowske, 202/224-4524.      
 
 