SEN. WARNER ISSUES STATEMENT ON INTRODUCTION OF LEGISLATION TO ADVANCE MATH, SCIENCE EDUCATION
  Today, Sen. John W. Warner, R-Va., submitted the following statement on the introduction of legislation to advance math and science education: 
   Mr. WARNER. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce, along with Senator Durbin, an important bipartisan bill related to education and our national, homeland, and economic security. My good friend and colleague in the U.S. House of Representatives, Congressman Frank Wolf, is introducing the same legislation today in the House.  
   Without a doubt, our ability to remain ahead of the curve in scientific and technological advancements is a key component to ensuring America's national, homeland and economic security in the post 9/11 world of global terrorism. 
   Yet alarmingly, the bottom line is that America faces a huge shortage of home-grown, highly trained scientific minds. 
   The situation America faces today is not unlike almost fifty years ago. On October 4, 1957, the Soviet Union successfully launched the first man-made satellite into space, Sputnik. The launch shocked America, as many of us had assumed that we were preeminent in the scientific fields. While prior to that unforgettable day America enjoyed an air of post World War II invincibility; afterwards our nation recognized that there was a cost to its complacency. We had fallen behind. 
   In the months and years to follow, we would respond with massive investments in science, technology and engineering. In 1958, Congress passed legislation creating the National Defense Education Act, which was designed to stimulate advancement in science and mathematics. In addition, President Eisenhower signed into law legislation that established the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA). And a few years later, in 1961, President Kennedy set the Nation's goal of landing a man on the moon within the decade. 
   These investments paid off. In the years following the Sputnik launch, America not only closed the scientific and technological gap with the Soviet Union, we surpassed them. Our renewed commitment to science and technology not only enabled us to safely land a man on the moon in 1969, it spurred research and development which helped ensure that our modern military has always had the best equipment and technology in the world. These post-Sputnik investments also laid the foundation for the creation of some of the most significant technologies of modern life, including personal computers and the Internet. 
   Why is any of this important to us today? Because, as the old saying goes -- he or she who fails to remember history is bound to repeat it. 
   The truth of the matter is that today America's education system is coming up short in training the highly technical American minds that we now need and will continue to need far into the future. 
   The 2003 Program for International Student Assessment found that the math, problem solving, and science skills of fifteen year old students in the United States were below average when compared to their international counterparts in industrialized countries. While a little bit better news was presented by the recently released 2003 Trends in International Mathematics and Science Study (TIMSS), it is still nothing we should cheer about. TIMSS showed that eighth grade students in the U.S. had lower average math scores than fifteen other participating countries. U.S. science scores weren't much better. 
   Our colleges and universities are not immune to the waning achievement in math and science education. The National Science Foundation reports the percentage of bachelor degrees in science and engineering have been declining in the U.S. for nearly two decades. In fact, the proportion of college-age students earning degrees in math, science, and engineering was substantially higher in 16 countries in Asia and Europe than it was in the United States. 
   In the past, this country has been able to compensate for its shortfall in homegrown, highly trained, technical and scientific talent by importing the necessary brain power from foreign countries. However, with increased global competition, this is becoming harder and harder. More and more of our imported brain power is returning home to their native countries. And regrettably, as they return home, many American high tech jobs are being outsourced with them. 
   Moreover, in the post 9/11 era, it is more important than ever from a security perspective to have American citizens performing certain tasks. We cannot run the risk of having to out-source the security of this country simply because we don't have enough highly trained U.S. citizens to meet our America's needs. 
   The legislation we are introducing today is a targeted measure that will help America meet its needs by providing strong incentives to students and graduates to pursue studies and careers in these important scientific and technical fields. 
   Our bill simply allows the federal government to pay the interest on undergraduate student loans for certain graduates of math, science, or engineering programs who agree to work in the United States in these fields for five consecutive years. Priority will be given to those students with degrees in majors that are key to protecting our national, homeland and economic security as a nation. 
   Almost fifty years ago our nation learned a lesson about the cost of complacency in science and technology. While we responded with immediate vigor and ultimately prevailed, today, new dangers are upon us. 
   Once again, America must rise to meet a new challenge. In my view, this initiative is an important step forward that will encourage Americans to enter important fields of study that our crucial to the national, homeland, and economic security of this country.
 
 