SEN. WARNER INTRODUCES BILL TO DESIGNATE MUCH OF ROUTE 15 CORRIDOR AS NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA
  On Friday, Jan. 12, Sen. John W. Warner, R-Va., introduced the "Journey Through Hallowed Ground National Heritage Area Act," bipartisan legislation that would designate a 175-mile corridor encompassing many historic lands in four states along U.S. Route 15, including Virginia, as a National Heritage Area.  
   Joining Senator Warner in introducing the bill were Senator Benjamin L. Cardin, D-Md., the principal co-sponsor, and Senators Jim Webb, D-Va., Barbara A. Mikulski, D-Md., Robert P. Casey, Jr., D-Pa., and John D. Rockefeller, IV, D-W.Va. 
   National Heritage Areas are intended to encourage residents, government agencies, non-profit groups, and private partners to plan and implement programs and projects to recognize, preserve, and celebrate many of America's defining landscapes. Today, there are 37 National Heritage Areas across the United States. 
   Generally following the path of the Old Carolina Road (today's Route 15), the "Journey Through Hallowed Ground" area is home to considerable historic, cultural, and natural treasures such as Monticello, Montpelier, Manassas, and Gettysburg. The area encompasses eight Presidential homes or sites, fifteen National Historic Landmarks, 47 historic districts, and the largest collection of Civil War battlefields in America. 
   With the help and tutelage of the National Park Service, the proposed National Heritage Area would be managed by The Journey Through Hallowed Ground Partnership, a non-profit entity whose sole purpose is to make known the wealth of the Hallowed Ground's offerings. 
   In introducing the bill, Senator Warner said, "In Virginia, we are lucky to have a region that is worthy of the recognition and celebration that a National Heritage Area designation affords. No area in America could possibly be more deserving of this status than the corridor affectionately known as The Journey Through Hallowed Ground. I intend to work with my colleagues in the Senate to give it the historic recognition that it deserves." 
   U.S. Representative Frank Wolf, R-Va., introduced a companion bill in the House of Representatives last week. 
   Now introduced in the Senate as S.289, the legislation has been referred to the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources for consideration.
 
 