SENS. WARNER, WEBB WELCOME NOMINATION OF AGEE TO FOURTH CIRCUIT
  Today, Senator John Warner (R-VA) and Senator Jim Webb (D-VA) welcomed President Bush's nomination of G. Steven Agee to the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit, as he was on their list of recommendations. 
   "I am pleased that President Bush has selected a Virginian of such distinction for this high honor," said Senator Warner. "With more than 30 years of legal experience and the highest esteem of his peers, Judge Agee will make an outstanding federal jurist."
   "Last June, Senator Warner and I jointly interviewed and then recommended five candidates for the Fourth Circuit who possessed exceptional legal qualifications and received the highest ratings from the legal community," said Senator Webb. "Virginia Supreme Court Justice Steven Agee was among this list of outstanding candidates. I am pleased that the president has advanced the process by nominating Judge Agee to the Fourth Circuit."
   In June 2007, senators Warner and Webb forwarded a recommendation letter to the president that included the names of five prominent members of the Virginia State Bar deemed eminently qualified to sit on this court. The senators worked together, engaging in an extensive, thorough search for lawyers and judges they regarded as highly qualified for this very important appointment.
   Judge Agee has served since 2003 as a justice on the Supreme Court of Virginia. Prior to that, from 2001 to 2003, he was a judge on the Court of Appeals of Virginia.
   A member of the Virginia House of Delegates from 1982 to 1994, Judge Agee, a graduate of the University of Virginia School of Law, was also a member of the Virginia Criminal Sentencing Commission, and is on the board of trustees of Bridgewater College, his alma mater. From 1986 to 1997, Judge Agee proudly served in the uniform of the U.S. Army as a member of the Judge Advocate General Corps.
   The nomination of Judge Agee will soon be considered by the Senate Committee on the Judiciary, and, if reported out, will be debated on the floor of the Senate.
 
 