SENS. WARNER, WEBB: FY2008 DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS SUPPORT VIRGINIA'S CONTRIBUTIONS TO NATIONAL SECURITY, TROOP WELFARE
  Senator John W. Warner (R-VA) and Senator Jim Webb (D-VA), both members of the Senate Committee on Armed Services, announced today that provisions in the Department of Defense Appropriations Act for fiscal year 2008 (H.R. 3222 ) will support Virginia's significant contributions to national security and the welfare of our men and women serving in uniform. 
   The bill, approved by both Houses of Congress on Nov. 8, was signed into law by President Bush today. 
   "I am pleased to see such important and substantive measures included in this legislation. These programs serve the interests of the men and women of our armed forces, their families and our nation," said Senator Warner. "They provide our military with much-needed resources to defend our interests around the globe and safeguard Americans here at home." 
   "Senator Warner and I considered this defense spending bill in a bipartisan manner to ensure that it provided for the many important contributions Virginians are making to our nation's defense," said Senator Webb. "Among its many investments, the bill recognizes the importance of shipbuilding for a strong and suitably sized Navy." 
   Webb continued: "I was also pleased to see Congress and the president support the bill's 3.5 percent across-the-board pay raise for our military service members. This is a fitting way to tell our men and women in uniform and their families that we recognize and appreciate all that they are doing in the wartime service of our nation." 
   The bill appropriates funding for the following projects: 
   RADFORD
   RADFORD ARMY AMMUNITION PLANT 
   The Congress appropriated $8 million, in addition to the $32 million appropriated in fiscal year 2007, to address a backlog of critical infrastructure modernization projects at Radford Army Ammunition Plant. This funding will help modernize Radford's World War II-era infrastructure in an environmentally responsible manner by addressing the plant's inefficient solvent recovery and acid storage and containment systems. The Radford Army Ammunition Plant is the sole U.S. source for a wide range of military propellants used by all branches of the U.S. armed forces. It is a major employer in the New River Valley. 
   HAMPTON ROADS
   USS GERALD R. FORD (CVN-78) CONSTRUCTION 
   The Congress provided $2.7 billion for Navy funding for construction of the next-generation nuclear-powered aircraft carrier, Gerald R. Ford (CVN-78), at Northrop Grumman Newport News. 
   VIRGINIA-CLASS SUBMARINE CONSTRUCTION 
   The Congress appropriated $588 million to begin advanced procurement of materials necessary to begin construction of two nuclear-powered Virginia-class submarines per year in 2010, rather than 2012, as the administration had recommended. 
   FREE-ELECTRON LASER FOR NAVAL APPLICATIONS 
   The Congress added $2 million for continued research in directed energy and lasers at the Thomas Jefferson National Laboratory in Newport News. 
   DANVILLE
   MILITARY TIRES 
   The Congress agreed to a provision mandating the Defense Logistics Agency take measures to ensure that all tire manufacturers be on an equal footing in the competitive market, and that new tire types are subject to fair competition among manufacturers, including Goodyear. This measure affects more than 2,200 workers in the Danville region who work for Goodyear and manufacture tires for the United States Armed Services.
   ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS
   COMMONWEALTH-WIDE MILITARY PROGRAMS 
   In addition, the Congress appropriated in excess of $23 million for military research and development programs and more than $5 million for operations, maintenance and procurement activities in the Commonwealth. A further $1.6 million was appropriated for the Virginia National Guard to enhance emergency preparedness and war fighting capabilities. In addition to numerous Virginia companies, these programs will be executed by George Mason University, Norfolk State University, the College of William and Mary and Virginia Tech, in conjunction with the Department of Defense.
 
 