SEN. WARNER'S LETTER ON SENATE COMMITTEE ASSIGNMENTS
  On Dec. 14 Sen. John W. Warner, R-Va., wrote the following letter to Sen. Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., the incoming Senate Republican leader, on his committee assignments in the next Congress. 
   Yesterday, it was announced that Senator Warner will serve as the second-ranking Republican on both the Senate Armed Services Committee and the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence. He will continue his assignment on a third security-related committee, the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.  
   The current Chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, Senator Warner relinquishes his position as top Republican on that panel as a result of Senate Republican Conference Rules that impose a six-year term limit on Committee Chairmen. Senator Warner served as Chairman of that Committee for the two-year spans encompassed by the 106th, 108th and 109th Congresses. 
   Additionally, Senator Warner will continue serving on the Senate Committee on the Environment and Public Works. 
   The full text of Senator Warner's letter to Senator McConnell appears below: 
   December 14, 2006 
   The Honorable Mitch McConnell
   Majority Whip
   United States Senate
   Washington, D.C. 20510
   Dear Mitch:
   write to express my appreciation to you and Senator Crapo for your work on behalf of the Caucus to make the committee assignments of members for the 110th Congress, the results of which you advised us yesterday evening. As was my request, I will continue serving on the four Committees of which I am currently a member. 
   In our discussion in your office on November 24, I indicated that my greatest interest in the overall responsibilities of the Senate is in the area of America's security, both at home and abroad. Working with my colleagues, beginning 28 years ago on the Armed Services Committee, later on the Intelligence Committee, and then on the recently formed Homeland Security Committee, has given me this opportunity. During this period I have been privileged to serve as Chairman or Ranking Member of the Armed Services Committee for 14 years, and, for several years, as Vice Chairman of the Select Committee on Intelligence. I will retain senior positions on both of those committees, and continue serving on the Homeland Security Committee. 
   Further, in our discussion, I indicated that the Republican Conference rules and precedents clearly recognize the "seniority" of membership on Committees to be the principal factor in determining which members shall be elected to serve as Chairman or Ranking Member. My understanding of these rules and precedents has been confirmed to me by David Schiappa, the Secretary for the Majority, and in a written memorandum by Elizabeth Letchworth, who preceded Mr. Schiappa in that position. As all members, I have been considering for some time my options for the next Congress. 
   Then the 2006 election occurred with outcomes and ramifications I had not envisioned. 
   Given its forceful impact on Virginia, I am now strongly considering running for reelection to the Senate in 2008. With the ever-increasing complexity of our nation's security situation, and, now, with your decision regarding my Committee assignments, I have decided to devote my full time to security responsibilities in the Senate and the demands of a vigorous and challenging reelection campaign. For these reasons, I intend to defer exercising the rights afforded me under Republican Conference Rules and precedents and not seek election as the Ranking Member of EPW. 
   If reelected, I will be in a position to decide on my leadership options in the 111th Congress. 
   Such dedication of my time will allow me to continue focusing on Virginia's and America's priorities in the area of national security, and to campaign for the Senate. The fact that in three of the last four statewide elections in Virginia, Democrats have won in the top spot on the state ticket, with the only exception being my own race for Senate in 2002, underlies my decision. 
   I also thank Senator Crapo and the Committee on Committees, in supporting my priorities for the next Congress and I ask that I never be given that challenging assignment! 
   With kind regards, I am 
   Sincerely, 
   John Warner.
 
 