SEN. WARNER COMMENTS ON AMYOTROPHIC LATERAL SCLEROSIS REGISTRY ACT OF 2007
  Today I am pleased to report that the Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee unanimously passed S. 1382, the ALS Registry Act of 2007. This bipartisan legislation currently has 66 cosponsors. I am pleased to be the lead Republican cosponsor of this bill. Similar legislation recently passed in the House of Representatives by a vote of 411-3. I hope this important bill, which is strongly supported by the ALS Association, will soon become law.  
   A single national patient registry which collects and stores information on the prevalence and incidence of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), also known as Lou Gehrig's disease, does not exist in the United States today. The establishment of a national registry will help identify the incidence and prevalence of ALS in the United States and collect data, which are urgently needed for ALS research, disease management and the development of standards of care. A national ALS registry will also promote a better understanding of the disease, to help determine causes of ALS, and significantly enhance the nation's efforts to find a treatment and cure for ALS.
   This legislation will provide for the creation and maintenance of a single nationwide ALS Registry at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention by identifying, building upon, expanding and coordinating among pre-existing registries. The registry would collect data essential to the study of ALS as determined by a newly-created federal Advisory Committee on the National ALS Registry. 
   S. 1382 will also provide for research access to ALS data as recommended by the Advisory Committee and ensure that such data is available to the National Institutes of Health and the Department of Veterans Affairs. This legislation will be authorized at $2 million for FY2008, $25 million for FY2009, and $16 million for each of fiscal years 2010 through 2012. Finally, S. 1382 requires that the Secretary of Health and Human Services issue a report to Congress outlining the status of disease registries generally within 18 months of the date of enactment.
 
 