SEN. WARNER ISSUES STATEMENT ON VIRGINIA RIDGE AND VALLEY ACT OF 2007
  Chairman Wyden, Ranking Member Barasso, I thank you for holding this hearing today regarding the Virginia Ridge and Valley Act of 2007 (S.570/H.R.1011). I have worked closely on this bi-partisan bill with my colleagues, Senator Jim Webb (D-VA), and Congressman Rick Boucher (D-VA-9), who has championed this legislation in the House of Representatives. I thank both of them for their tremendous efforts. 
   I also want to thank Dr. Jim Murray for his willingness to come to Washington and testify on behalf of this bill. His long time efforts to promote wilderness in Virginia are much appreciated, and I am proud to know that a man with ties to Washington and Lee University and the University of Virginia, two institutions for which I have a particular pride, is advocating for such a worthy cause.
   As you know, the Virginia Ridge and Valley Act seeks to add six new wilderness areas, expand six existing wilderness areas, and create two new national scenic areas in the Jefferson National Forest in Southwest Virginia. I am pleased that this legislation enjoys the support of many local governments, organizations, businesses, tourism groups, and elected officials. Virginia's Governor, Tim Kaine, has endorsed this legislation as well.
   While I am aware that the U.S. Forest Service supports some but not all of these designations, I, as an alumni of the Forest Service from 1943, am confident that the Forest Service will continue to work with us on this legislation so that it may move quickly in the Senate. Certainly a bill that enjoys so much local support, and I will submit a list of endorsers for the record, should move swiftly.
   I am proud to say that Virginia boasts just over 100,000 acres of designated wilderness lands today. It has been my privilege to work on behalf of many of these areas over my nearly 30 years in the Senate. However, there is still much work to be done. If enacted, the Virginia Ridge and Valley Act of 2007 will substantially increase this figure by expanding our opportunities for uninterrupted enjoyment in the forest with the addition of nearly 43,000 acres of new wilderness and wilderness study lands and almost 12,000 acres of national scenic areas.
   As an avid outdoorsman, I enjoy opportunities for recreation like most Americans. Therefore, I want to stress the many joyful outdoor activities that will be enhanced by the wilderness designation in these areas, including: hunting, fishing, hiking, camping, canoeing, and horseback riding, to name a few. By designating these lands as wilderness and scenic areas, we ensure that Virginians will be able to enjoy these activities in an unspoiled playground for generations to come.
   Thank you for this opportunity to speak on behalf of the Virginia Ridge and Valley Act of 2007. It is my hope to see this important legislation become law before my last term in the U.S. Senate is over.
 
 