SEN. WARNER VOTES IN FAVOR OF FDA-TOBACCO BUYOUT LEGISLATION
  Today Sen. John W. Warner, R-Va., announced that he will vote this evening in favor of an amendment coupling a tobacco quota buyout with FDA regulation of tobacco, calling the measure "a great step to protect the public health of all American citizens and the economic health of our tobacco farmers, their families, and their communities."
   The following are Senator Warner's floor remarks on the legislation, as delivered this afternoon:  
   Mr. WARNER. Mr. President, I rise today with a great deal of anxiousness and anticipation. As a result of the World Trade Organization's finding of U.S. noncompliance with international trade obligations, retaliatory tariffs have been exacted on U.S. exports. Each month these tariffs will increase until Congress passes the FSC-ETI bill. The costs to the American economy can be avoided - I am pleased that we can pass this bill today and am hopeful that it can move swiftly through conference. 
   Often times things move at a glacial pace here in the United States Senate. But if there is one thing I have learned in my many years as a member of this institution, it is that there are rare instances that the pace becomes so swift that one could miss something if he or she were to blink. The announcement that we would return to consideration of the FSC bill with an amendment on tobacco may have struck many of us as an indication that today was to be one of those days. However, today is just the next step in the long journey for many of us in this room. 
   For a number of years I have worked with many of my colleagues in the Senate and Members of the House of Representatives to address an issue of vital importance to the rural communities of the South. We have met with our farmers, drafted numerous pieces of legislation, consulted with experts in economic and agriculture policy - and we have done it over and over again. Today, the Senate finally stands poised to speak as a body to end the outdated tobacco quota system. 
   Our tobacco growing communities, long dependent on the cultivation of tobacco, have been devastated by foreign competition and the quota system that keeps the price of leaf artificially high. The amendment submitted by the Senator from Ohio contains language from a bill crafted by a coalition of members from the tobacco farming states of Kentucky, North Carolina, Tennessee, South Carolina, Georgia, and Virginia. The Tobacco Market Transition Act will end the current tobacco quota system, provide compensation to growers and owners of quota, and provide grants to states and institutions of higher education to reduce community reliance on the production of tobacco. 
   I have been a member of this body for 26 years and can say without equivocation that for the farm communities of Southside and Southwest Virginia there is no more important national policy. I can also say that not much is more controversial and polarizing than tobacco legislation. There are concerns with a buyout that "makes farmers instant millionaires," or that it raises taxes, or that it imposes a cost to the general treasury. I am pleased to say that this amendment does none of those things. 
   Still, many have stated that a buyout will not pass the Senate without being coupled to legislation specifically giving the Food and Drug Administration the authority to regulate tobacco products. While these two policy goals have for years seemed mutually exclusive, sometimes in the legislative process major national needs that appear to be in conflict come together to forge a comprehensive national policy. Such is the case today, as we consider both a tobacco quota buyout and FDA regulation of tobacco as part of one amendment. 
   While many tobacco farmers vehemently opposed FDA regulation of tobacco not even ten years ago, the issue has evolved since then. Today, the simple fact today is that most tobacco farmers support FDA regulation so long as it is coupled with a tobacco quota buyout. That is certainly become the predominant view of Virginia tobacco farmers who I have spoken with over the last several years. And, that is clearly the view of several groups who represent growers in my state. The Virginia Farm Bureau; the Virginia Tobacco Growers Association; the Virginia Sun-cured Growers Association; the Virginia Dark-Fired Growers Association; the Virginia Agricultural Growers Association; Allies for Tobacco, Inc.; and Concerned Friends for Tobacco all have signed onto a set of core principles stating that it is in the best interests of the public health community and the tobacco producer community for the FDA to have authority to establish fair and equitable regulatory controls over tobacco products. 
   But not only has the farm communities' position on FDA regulation of tobacco evolved over the years, so has the position of the largest tobacco company in the in the United States, if not the world. Less than ten years ago, Phillip Morris actively opposed efforts to grant the FDA authority over tobacco. Today, that same company, now known as Altria, which is headquartered in the Commonwealth of Virginia, is actively supporting legislation to grant the FDA the authority to regulate tobacco. 
   What we have seen over the last ten years is an amazing coming together of public health advocates, tobacco farmers, and a major tobacco company. Many in the Congress have helped lead the way. The amendment that stands before us is the culmination of the hard work of many, including Senator Frist, Senator McConnell, Senator Kennedy, Senator DeWine, and the Chairman of the HELP Committee, Senator Gregg, who always helped keep this issue on the Committee's agenda. My colleague from Virginia, Congressman Tom Davis, also played an important role. 
   The compromise that has been reached in the Senate is an important one not only because, as I stated earlier, it will provide the help that our tobacco farmers so desperately need. It is also important because it will improve our public health. And that second point is an important one to me. 
   You see, my father was a doctor. He was a surgeon gynecologist, and he dedicated his life to medical research. Much of his research was spent on efforts to eradicate cancer. Ironically enough, though, it was ultimately this same devastating illness that my father worked so hard to find a cure for that ultimately took his life. 
   So, as I think about my father today, I know that he is smiling down because the Senate is about to pass a bill that could help reduce the cases of cancer and reduce the number of premature deaths in this country related to tobacco. We know that smoking is one of the foremost preventable causes of death in the United States. It is estimated to cause over 400,000 deaths in America each year. That is why we have warning labels on cigarette packages and public awareness campaigns against smoking. The dangers of smoking are clear. 
   The bill before us today will help us reduce those dangers in many ways. Most notably, in my view, is the modified risk section, which I believe is the hallmark of the FDA portion of this amendment. This section provides the FDA the authority to approve modified risk tobacco products that reduce harm of tobacco-related disease and benefit the public health. With the imprimatur of the FDA, current users of high-risk tobacco products could be encouraged to use these reduced risk products. And, as they move down the continuum or risk with the products they use, we should see a corresponding decrease in the number of tobacco related illnesses as well. 
   While the public health benefits of this amendment are strong, it is also very important to make clear that the FDA legislation before us today is balanced. I worked extensively with Senator DeWine and Senator Kennedy to make sure of that. For example, this legislation will in no way restrict the rights of adult Americans who wish to smoke or use other tobacco products. At my request, and the request of others, Senator DeWine and Senator Kennedy modified their original legislation to make it clear that the FDA would not have the power to ban all cigarettes and other tobacco products. Under this amendment, that power is reserved to Congress, where it properly belongs. 
   Today we take a great step to protect the public health of all American citizens and the economic health of our tobacco farmers, their families, and their communities. The passage of this amendment is a great triumph for this body and represents the spirit of legislative cooperation and compromise that has long been the cornerstone of this institution. It is my sincere hope that we can soon celebrate the final conference report for this bill and the inclusion of the amendment on which we vote today.
 
 