SEN. WARNER ADDRESSES MEDIA FOLLOWING CLOSED BRIEFING BY DOD OFFICIALS BEFORE SENATE ARMED SERVICES COMMITTEE
  Media Availability
  Sen. John Warner
  Chairman, Senate Armed Services Committee
  Following a closed briefing by Department of Defense officials before the Senate Armed Services Committee:
   WARNER: That's Ambassador Bremer. But we're not announcing that yet or confirming it. 
   QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE) 
   WARNER: Of the 25 known ICRC reports, I think 24 in one way or another were shared with us today, and one is still, hopefully, in transit to us. 
   QUESTION: Will you call William Haynes for a hearing? 
   WARNER: That may well be. But not in the coming between now and recess time. I think Haynes, who's general counsel in the Department of Defense, his testimony could be most helpful after the Completion of a number of these investigations. 
   That's the decision that I have to make. 
   QUESTION: Why wait until the fall for Haynes? 
   WARNER: Because I think we need to know the facts. And we're not in the position to try and have an independent investigation at this point in time. I just had 16 days of hearings on the floor of the Senate with a bill, I have a limited staff - I think we're doing a very credible job in our oversight and trying to keep the public advised, through you, as to what we're learning. 
   QUESTION: Sir, just to clarify, you'd like to see all of these investigations wrapped up, finished and then hold your public hearings? 
   WARNER: No, I think as they're finished, we will address them in oversight and quite possibly be able to have a public hearing on the report. Now, we'll take them in sequence. 
   QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE) 
   WARNER: Well look, I've had policy, I had the secretary of defense, I had Cambone, I had the generals. They're all policy-makers, so we're not in any way not looking at how the policy was made. 
   But in fairness to them, they've got to be given an opportunity to have the benefit of the completion of the investigations. 
   QUESTION: Are you satisfied the administration's provided all the documents related to this? The House Armed Services Committee is going to be... 
   WARNER: Well, I can't speak to the House. All I can say is that in my judgment. in response to this senator as chairman's request, the secretary of defense has been forthcoming. 
   QUESTION: How about the White House? 
   WARNER: As yet we haven't specifically made a request to the White House of anything. 
   QUESTION: Senator, can you commit that there will be hearings on Abu Ghraib this fall? 
   WARNER: The question is, will I commit - will there be hearings by the Armed Services Committee as it relates to the results of these investigations on Abu Ghraib? The answer is yes. 
   QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE) 
   WARNER: As soon as the reports are completed, I will address the reports, hopefully in open hearing. And I can't predict when they'll be completed. 
   QUESTION: Are you at all concerned that this might not happen before the election or it may... 
   WARNER: Now wait a minute. I'm not going to speculate. I've given you the best evidence that I have of the schedule of hearings and when they're going to be completed. And I've indicated when they've been completed, I will then assess the opportunity to have an open hearing on those reports. 
   QUESTION: How would you characterize the information (OFF-MIKE) 
   WARNER: Well, I think the witnesses here today are very forthcoming in the facts. They didn't decline to answer a single question put by the committee, and a number of senators were present. 
   So I think it was an excellent briefing this morning. 
   QUESTION: Do you agree with the earliest assessment that only seven or a few rogue individuals... 
   WARNER: I'm not going to try and make any judgments until these reports are in. 
   QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE) 
   WARNER: It's set forth here when the inquiries will be completed. We addressed two things this morning: one, procedure, what's going on, when will they be completed, and the breadth of what's taking place. 
   QUESTION: Did you learn any more than the last hearing? 
   WARNER: Well, just a minute, let me finish. Secondly, we got legal opinions to the effect - and I'm going to get a written opinion from the general counsel of the Department of Defense on those people who were involved in administrative proceedings, criminal proceedings to date, and how they cannot be brought at this time, in my judgment, to the committee without jeopardizing their rights under the Uniform Code. So that's something that I'll make public as soon as I get it. 
   QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE) that the Defense Department received before this became public, do you believe that they acted aggressively enough, soon enough, to address this matter? 
   WARNER: In most instances, they did. But in several, I think, there are some tough questions that's going to have to be answered. I can say that without reservation. 
   QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE) 
   WARNER: No. The reason being to give them security. Any senator at any time can contact me, and I will see that the documents are brought back for their personal inspection. 
   QUESTION: Senator, is there any problems that would keep Ambassador Bremer from testifying next week? 
   WARNER: Yes. It's not a problem. I had a very fine conversation. But I think he's done a credible and a remarkable job. And he needs an opportunity to spend a little time with his family. But I pointed out that I think it's important, since he was a principal witness, to get some 20 billion-plus dollars authorized and appropriated by the Congress, that the Congress is owed his own personal summary of what he felt has gone on over there, what left to be undone, and his own views as to the expenditure of the taxpayers fund. 
   And he fully understands that. We're trying to work it out. 
   QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE) 
   WARNER: I can't answer that. Let the trial finish. 
   QUESTION: Are you pressured by your Republican colleagues here or by the administration, by specifically the White House, not to hold this (OFF-MIKE) 
   WARNER: Do I feel any pressure by my colleagues here in the Senate, either Democrat or Republican? The answer is no. They've all been very cooperative. We had good attendance this morning. 
   QUESTION: Any pressure by the White House? the White House? 
   WARNER: None whatsoever. 
   QUESTION: Do you believe that the White House and the DOD attitudes and guidelines on interrogations and interpretations of the Geneva Conventions that were outlined in those documents that the White House released a couple weeks ago - do you think that contributed to an atmosphere that led to what happened at Abu Ghraib? 
   WARNER: I'm afraid I just couldn't hear your question and can't answer it. 
   But I assure you that everybody's examining the future so that there cannot be a repetition of this problem. I'm confident of that. 
   Thank you very much.
 
 