SENS. WARNER, WEBB INVITE VIRGINIA STUDENTS TO ATTEND ACADEMY DAY
  On Thursday, March 15, 2007, Sen. John W. Warner, R-Va., and Sen. Jim Webb, D-Va., announced that all high school and junior high students interested in applying to a U.S. Service Academy are invited to attend Virginia Academy Day on Saturday, March 24, 2007 at the Udvar-Hazy Center, Smithsonian National Air and Space Museum, Chantilly, Virginia. The keynote speaker will be Major General Joseph Anderson, USMC (Ret.), Deputy Director for the Udvar-Hazy Center, and a graduate of the U.S. Naval Academy.  
   Senator Warner said, "I consider military service to be one of the greatest privileges of American citizenship, and am fortunate to have been able to follow my father's example by way of my own modest service in uniform. Today, we are similarly fortunate in Virginia to have such fine young men and women considering accepting the challenge and duty of service in the military, and in particular, attendance at one of our Service Academies. 
   "Citizens who earn the privilege of serving in our military gain a strong background of discipline and achievement that benefits them throughout their professional careers, either in or out of uniform. I invite all young Virginians interested in competing for a spot at these fine institutions to attend Academy Day and learn as much as they can about the process." 
   "Both sides of my family have a strong citizen-soldier tradition," said Senator Webb. "So many young men and women today have benefited from military service and have assured the well-being of our nation. I want to thank interested students in advance for their commitment, and I encourage them to participate in this day of orientation with all military branches represented." 
   The Senators are joining with other members of the Virginia Congressional Delegation in sponsoring the annual Virginia Academy Day. High school and junior high students, their parents and guidance counselors are provided with a comprehensive overview of the U.S. Service Academies and their admissions processes. Students will be able to meet with officials from the U.S. Military Academy, the U.S. Air Force Academy, the U.S. Naval Academy, the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy and the U.S. Coast Guard Academy. Representatives from the Virginia Delegation offices will be available to answer questions regarding the application procedures for Congressional nominations to the U.S. Service Academies. 
   Virginia Academy Day 2007 will be held at the Udvar-Hazy Center, Smithsonian National Air and Space Museum, Chantilly, Virginia, near Dulles Airport, on Saturday, March 24, 2007. Registration starts at 8:00 a.m., with the program beginning at 8:45 a.m. 
   For more information about Virginia Academy Day or the Academy nomination process, contact Senator Warner's office at 202-224-2023 or visit his website at http://warner.senate.gov.
 
 