SENS. WARNER, WEBB ANNOUNCE SENATE PASSAGE OF RESOLUTION ON VIRGINIA TECH TRAGEDY
  On Monday, April 16, Sen. John W. Warner, R-Va., and Sen. Jim Webb, D-Va., announced that the United States Senate has adopted their resolution expressing sorrow and condolences to the families of the victims of the tragedy at Virginia Tech, and extending the Senate's thoughts and prayers to the entire Virginia Tech community in this difficult time.  
   The Resolution, which was co-sponsored by all 100 Senators, and was adopted by the Senate this evening by unanimous consent, reads as follows: 
   Be it Resolved by the Senate that the Senate - 
   (1) offers its heartfelt condolences to the victims and their families, and to students, faculty, administration and staff and their families who have been deeply affected by the tragic events that occurred today at Virginia Tech in Blacksburg, Virginia; 
   (2) expresses its hope that today's losses will lead to a shared national commitment to take steps that will help our communities prevent such tragedies from occurring in the future 
   (3) recognizes that Virginia Tech has served as an exemplary institution of teaching, learning, and research for well over a century; and that the University's historic and proud traditions will carry on. 
   Senator Warner issued the following statement in response to the tragedy: 
   "All Americans join the citizens of Virginia in grieving over the tragic loss of life at Virginia Tech. We mourn the young students and faculty whose lives of promise have been cut short, and those who have been injured, by this incomprehensible act of violence. 
   "In time, Americans will learn more about the circumstances of this senseless tragedy. For now and forever after, our hearts and prayers are with the victims, their families, and the other students, faculty and staff of Virginia Tech, and their families. 
   "Virginians are proud of this historic university, and how it has served our state and nation for nearly a century-and-a-half as an exemplary institution of higher learning. That tradition will carry on." 
   Senator Webb gave the following remarks responding to the tragedy: 
   "I want to express my profound sympathies to the entire Virginia Tech community for the tragic shooting that occurred on the campus earlier this morning. My heart goes out to the parents and families of the victims of this senseless act. 
   "Virginia Tech is a great institution. The young people who were lost today had demonstrated an enormous amount of promise. There is very little that I can add in terms of describing the depth of our feelings and our regret that this incident has occurred. It is an incredible human tragedy. 
   "Hopefully once the grieving is done, we can find ways that will prevent these sorts of incidents from happening in the future.".
 
 