SENATE PASSES AMENDMENTNAMING NEW GENERATION OF AIRCRAFT CARRIERS FOR PRESIDENT GERALD FORD
  Today Sen. John W. Warner, R-Va., the Chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, announced that the United States Senate has approved legislation that would name the Navy's newest aircraft carrier, CVN-78, as the USS Gerald Ford.  
   As the CVN-78 is the first in the new class of aircraft carriers, the legislation would have the effect of placing the former President's name on this entire generation of ships, scheduled to remain in service for the next half-century. 
   Senator Warner's amendment was co-sponsored by Senator Ted Stevens, R-Alaska, the President Pro Tempore of the Senate, and Senator Carl Levin, D-Mich., the Ranking Minority member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, and Senator Olympia Snowe, R-Maine. 
   Senator Warner said, "I am pleased that the Senate has approved this amendment unanimously to name the Navy's future class of air carriers in honor of a great statesman and leader, whose distinguished career of service to our Nation has spanned more than six decades. I can think of no finer tribute to our Nation's 38th President, and indeed to the United States Navy, than to add the name of a brave World War II carrier sailor to a warship that will sail the seven seas for the next half-century. 
   "As a young lieutenant, Gerald Ford served aboard the aircraft carrier USS Monterey, CVL-26. The Monterey earned 10 battle stars during the pacific Campaigns, including the battles of Makin Island, Kwajalein, Truk, Saipan, the Philippines, and other major engagements. 
   "President Ford always acknowledged that his opportunity to serve in the military in World War II proved invaluable to his subsequent service in Congress and as Vice President and President of the United States." 
   Senator Warner conferred on the legislation with Vice President Dick Cheney, Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld, former Representative Jack Marsh, who served as counsel to former President Ford, and former Secretary of Defense Melvin Laird, a lifetime friend of the former President. 
   Senator Warner, a former Secretary of the Navy, said, "Given that the former President had served as President of the Senate while Vice President of the United States, I believed it was quite proper to initiate the naming of this carrier through legislation in the Senate." 
   President Ford telephoned Senator Warner, a friend of some 45 years, yesterday on the subject. "I am humbled and highly honored by the action," the former President said in a separate statement yesterday. 
   The Senate approved the amendment unanimously this week as part of the annual defense authorization bill. The bill will eventually proceed to a House-Senate conference, and then to the president's desk for signature in the coming months.
 
 