CHAIRMAN WARNER WRITES CABINET OFFICIALS, AIMING FOR GREATER SUPPORT, COORDINATION ON IRAQ, AFGHANISTAN
  Today Sen. John W. Warner, R-Va., the Chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, released a letter that he has written to Cabinet Secretaries and certain agency heads, asking them to review their departments' support of America's objectives in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
   In the letter, sent yesterday evening, Senator Warner cites the President's December 2005 directive aimed at improving interagency coordination on Iraq and Afghanistan, and says, "it is imperative that we leverage the resident expertise in all federal departments and agencies of our government to address the complex problems facing the emerging democracies in Iraq and Afghanistan."  
   In testimony before the Armed Services Committee this morning, General John Abizaid, USA, Commander, U.S. Central Command (CENTCOM), reiterated his view that, "substantially more work is needed for increased interagency coordination at higher levels of government and for ensuring unity of effort." 
   "We need significantly more non-military personnel in the CENTCOM [area of responsibility] with expertise in areas such as economic development, civil affairs, agriculture and law," Abizaid testified. 
   Senator Warner's letter also asks the Secretaries and agency heads to report to him by April 10, on their Departments' "current and projected activities in both theaters of operations" and what additional authorities they might need in their efforts. 
   Senator Warner indicates his willingness to sponsor legislation, if necessary, "to overcome challenges posed by our current organizational structures and processes that prevent an integrated national response." 
   The full text of the letter is attached. The letter was sent to all Cabinet Secretaries (other than DoD), the White House Chief of Staff, the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, the U.S. Trade Representative, and the Director, Office of National Drug Control Policy. 
   March 15, 2006
   Honorable Condoleeza Rice 
   Secretary of State 
   Harry S. Truman Building 
   2201 C Street, NW 
   Room 7226 
   Washington, DC 20520 
   Dear Madam Secretary: 
   Over the past few months, the President has candidly and frankly explained what is at stake in Iraq. I firmly believe that the success or failure of our efforts in Iraq may ultimately lie at how well the next Iraqi government is prepared to govern. For the past three years, the United States and our coalition partners have helped the Iraqi people prepare for this historic moment of self-governance. 
   Our mission in Iraq and Afghanistan requires coordinated and integrated action among all federal departments and agencies of our government. This mission has revealed that our government is not adequately organized to conduct interagency operations. I am concerned about the slow pace of organizational reform within our civilian departments and agencies to strengthen our interagency process and build operational readiness. 
   In recent months, General Peter Pace, USMC, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and General John P. Abizaid, USA, Commander, United States Central Command, have emphasized the importance of interagency coordination in Iraq and Afghanistan. General Abizaid stated in his 2006 posture statement to the Senate Armed Services Committee, "We need significantly more non-military personnel...with expertise in areas such as economic development, civil affairs, agriculture, and law." 
   Strengthening interagency operations has become the foundation for the current Quadrennial Defense Review (QDR). The QDR so aptly states that, "success requires unified statecraft: the ability of the U.S. Government to bring to bear all elements of national power at home and to work in close cooperation with allies and partners abroad." In the years since the passage of the Goldwater-Nichols Act of 1986, "jointness" has promoted more unified direction and action of our Armed Forces. I now believe the time has come for similar changes to take place elsewhere in our federal government. 
   I commend the President for his leadership in issuing a directive to improve our interagency coordination by signing the National Security Presidential Directive-44, titled "Management of Interagency Efforts Concerning Reconstruction and Stabilization," dated December 7, 2005. I applaud each of the heads of departments and agencies for working together to develop this important and timely directive. Now that the directive has been issued, I am writing to inquire about the plan for its full implementation. In particular, what steps have each federal department or agency taken to implement this directive? 
   I ask for your personal review of the level of support being provided by your department or agency in support of our Nation's objectives in Iraq and Afghanistan. Following this review, I request that you submit a report to me no later than April 10, 2006, on your current and projected activities in both theaters of operations, as well as your efforts in implementing the directive and what additional authorities or resources might be necessary to carry out the responsibilities contained in the directive. 
   I believe it is imperative that we leverage the resident expertise in all federal departments and agencies of our government to address the complex problems facing the emerging democracies in Iraq and Afghanistan. I am prepared to work with the executive branch to sponsor legislation, if necessary, to overcome challenges posed by our current organizational structures and processes that prevent an integrated national response. 
   I look forward to continued consultation on this important subject. 
   With kind regards, I am 
   Sincerely, 
   John Warner
   Chairman.
 
 