SENS. WARNER, WEBB INTRODUCE BILL TO CLOSE 'DIGITAL DIVIDE' AT MINORITY EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS
  On Thursday, January 18, Sens. John W. Warner, R-Va., and Jim Webb, D-Va., announced that they have introduced the Minority Serving Institution Digital and Wireless Technology Opportunity Act, aimed at providing resources to address the technology gap that exists at many minority educational institutions.  
   The bill would establish a grant program for Minority Serving Institutions (MSIs) to assist them in bringing increased access to computers, technology, and the Internet to their student populations. 
   In 2005, the bill passed in the Senate by unanimous consent, but the House of Representatives failed to act on it. In 2003, the legislation was approved in the Senate by a vote of 97-0. 
   Specifically, the legislation authorizes $250 million in federal grants for MSIs to acquire equipment, instrumentation, networking capability, hardware and software, digital network technology and wireless technology and infrastructure to develop and provide educational services. 
   Additionally, the grants could be used for such activities as campus wiring, equipment upgrades, and technology training. Finally, MSIs could use these funds to offer their students universal access to campus networks, increase connectivity rates, or make infrastructure improvements. 
   There are over 200 Hispanic Serving Institutions, over 100 Historically Black Colleges and Universities and over 30 Tribal Colleges throughout the United States that would be eligible for these technology grants. 
   Virginia is home to five Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) - Norfolk State University, St. Paul's College, Virginia Union University, Hampton University, and Virginia State University- in this category of institutions that would be helped by the bill. 
   Senator Warner said, "Today, more and more jobs require information-technology skills, and many jobs in the information-technology field pay higher salaries than non-information-technology positions. Unfortunately, many of our Minority Serving Institutions lack the capital to offer assistance to their students to bridge the 'digital divide' between students who are able to develop the skills necessary to succeed in a technology based economy and those who are not." 
   Senator Webb said, "I am pleased that I have the opportunity to introduce this important legislation with Senator Warner during my first month in office. Bridging the 'digital divide' in Minority Serving Institutions is crucial in a world where technology goes hand in hand with economic development and success. Investing in our Historically Black Colleges and other Minority Serving Institutions will allow our students to compete with anyone, anywhere in the world." 
   The bill was introduced in previous Congresses by former Senator George Allen, R-Va., and principally co-sponsored by Senator Warner. 
   Now introduced in the Senate as S.315, the legislation has been referred to the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science and Technology for consideration.
 
 