SEN. WARNER ANNOUNCES SENATE APPROVAL OF KEY EDUCATION INITIATIVES
  Today Sen. John W. Warner, R-Va., announced that the United States Senate has passed three of his key initiatives on education, an extension of Teacher Tax Relief Act, SMART grant funding and PROGap legislation, as part of two larger bills that passed the Senate recently.  
   Teacher Tax Relief Act 
   Originally passed in 2002 due to the sponsorship of Senator Warner and Senator Collins, the Teacher Tax Relief Act provides America's teachers with an above-the-line deduction of up to $250 in recognition of the many out-of-pocket costs our teachers incur as part of educating our students. The Teacher Tax Relief Act of 2002 was passed as a two-year measure. It was extended last year for an additional year, and the Tax Relief Act of 2005 will extend it for yet another year through calendar year 2006, providing nearly $250 million of tax relief for America's teachers. 
   SMART Grants 
   The "Science and Math Access to Retain Talent (SMART) Grant" provides eligible low-income students up to $1500 per year during their third and fourth years of study at a higher education institution. To be eligible for a SMART Grant, a student must qualify for a Federal Pell Grant and enroll in an eligible postsecondary academic program, as determined by the Secretary of Education. The National SMART Grant is authorized at $2.25 billion in mandatory spending over five years. The program includes an optional matching component whereby funds from private sources, namely the business community, may provide additional assistance to eligible students. 
   PROGap Legislation 
   The PROGap amendment, introduced by Senator Warner, calls for a mandatory spending program of approximately $7.25 billion that is designed to provide supplemental grants to low-income Pell grant recipients. This legislation would allow the Secretary of Education to award up to 25% higher PROGap awards for those recipients studying programs key to our national security in math, science, engineering and foreign languages. 
   Senator Warner said, "I am pleased that the Senate has voted to support these initiatives designed to help our teachers and provide incentives for students to study fields critical to our national security." 
   Now passed by the Senate, the two bills containing the measures, S.2020 and S.1932, will proceed a House-Senate conference where the fate of the measures will be decided. 
   Senator Warner intends to work with his colleagues to do everything possible so that the education measures are signed into law.
 
 