SEN. WARNER LETTER TO SENATE LEADERSHIP REGARDING H.R. 2640, NICS IMPROVEMENT AMENDMENTS ACT OF 2007
  Dear Leader Reid and Leader McConnell: 
   I write today to indicate my support for H. R. 2640, the NICS Improvement Amendments Act of 2007. Given the significance ofthis legislation, I urge you both to bring this bill to the floor ofthe United States Senate as soon as possible. I will work with you in achieving its passage.  
   This week marks the six-month anniversary of the horrific shootings that took place on the campus of Virginia Tech in Blacksburg, Virginia. On Tuesday, my senior staff met with family members ofthose who lost their lives on April 16, 2007, and a student who suffered wounds. I was scheduled to personally host this important meeting with this courageous group but, regretfully, was unable to do so because of a minor medical procedure I received earlier in the day. 
   Since traveling to Virginia Tech the day after the shootings, I have carried with me the memory of the campus community in mourning. I greatly admire the ability of those who lost loved ones, and those who themselves were injured, to come together in support of an initiative that could -I repeat, could -help prevent a wrongful use offirearms. After hearing from the survivors and the family members of the victims, after reviewing the findings ofthe Virginia Tech Review Panel commissioned by the Governor of Virginia, and after giving Governor Kaine and his staffthe opportunity to favorably comment on the legislation, I am convinced that this bill is an appropriate modification to the current federal law regarding firearms. 
   Since the enactment of the Brady statute in 1993, background checks on purchasers of firearms have provided a measure of safety with respect to preventing the wrongful use of such weapons. The terrible crime perpetrated at Virginia Tech brought to national attention the fact that we need to strengthen this system by addressing the under reporting of mental health records. Passage ofH. R. 2460 would be a step in the right direction towards preventing tragedies similar to that which occurred in Blacksburg. 
   For these reasons, I urge you to bring this critical legislation to the floor. 
   With kind regards, I am 
   Respectfully, 
   John Warner 
   cc: Senator Tom Coburn
 
 