SEN. WARNER ANNOUNCES $869 MILLION IN NEW HIGHWAY FUNDING FOR VIRGINIA
  Today Sen. John W. Warner, R-Va., announced that Congress has approved an interim federal highway bill that will send $869,478,645 in highway funds to Virginia over the next eight months.  
   The Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, of which Senator Warner is a senior member, negotiated the highway extension that will fund federal highway and transit projects as well as highway safety programs through Memorial Day 2005. The Senate and House of Representatives passed the extension yesterday evening by unanimous consent. 
   The extension represents the sixth such action by Congress since the expiration of the Transportation Equity Act (TEA-21) one year ago yesterday, and continues federal highway and transit funding at present levels for part of the new fiscal year that begins today. 
   In February, the Senate passed its version of a new six-year funding bill called SAFETEA (the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, and Efficient Transportation Equity Act of 2003), and Senate negotiators have been working with the House of Representatives since early summer to agree on a bill. The legislation sets the actual percentage levels for the return states will get over six years on the federal gas-tax contributions they make as part of our national highway system. 
   As a participant in the Senate-House conference, Senator Warner will continue working toward a six-year reauthorization bill in hopes of increasing Virginia's overall rate of return on its gas-tax contributions. Known as a "donor state" because of its history of contributing more than it receives in federal highway funds, Virginia will maintain under this extension a 90.5% return on its contributions into fiscal year 2005. 
   In 1998, the last time Congress addressed the funding levels, Senator Warner worked with his colleagues on the Committee to increase Virginia's return from 79% to the current level of 90.5%. 
   In announcing the extension today, Senator Warner said, "I remain committed to passing a six-year bill that increases funding for highway and transit infrastructure in Virginia, while also advancing the safety of our nationwide transportation network. Our businesses and families depend upon both mobility and safety. Today's action is one more step on the path to continued improvements in our system."
 
 