SEN. WARNER ANNOUNCES COMMITTEE ASSIGNMENTS FOR 109TH CONGRESS
  Today Sen. John W. Warner, R-Va., announced that the Senate Republican leadership intends to assign him to four committees for the two-year 109th Congress, which begins January 3rd.  
   Subject to final approval by the Republican Conference and the Senate Committee on the Armed Services in January, Senator Warner will continue as Chairman of the Senate Committee on the Armed Services, which he has chaired in the 106th and 108th Congresses, and part of the 107th Congress. He will also continue as a senior member on the Senate Committee on the Environment and Public Works. 
   As a result of changes to the Senate's oversight of the intelligence community, the Chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee will now serve as an ex officio member of the restructured Senate Committee on Intelligence, thus Senator Warner will continue his service on this Committee from the last Congress. He also will begin serving on the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs. 
   Senator Warner said, "I am pleased that my colleagues have chosen to extend my chairmanship of the Armed Services Committee, on which I have served for the last 26 years. I consider it a great privilege to support our men and women in uniform and provide them the resources they need to prevail in the war on terror. Our Committee also will continue to support the transformation of our military to meet new and emerging threats. 
   "I am also pleased to continue my long service on the Environment and Public Works committee, where reauthorization of the highway bill will top the agenda, and to continue on the Senate Intelligence Committee. 
   "I am also looking forward to serving on the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs. Virginia is fortunate to have an exemplary federal employee community and private contractors who develop new technologies to strengthen our homeland defenses. From my new position on the Committee, I look forward to working with both of these fine groups to protect our homeland and improve the efficiency of our federal government." 
   The Senate Majority Leader, Senator Bill Frist, R-Tenn., gave his tentative approval yesterday to committee assignments of all Republican Senators. These assignments are subject to the approval of the Senate Republican Conference, and to the election of Chairmen by committee members.
 
 