SEN. WARNER ANNOUNCES SENATE ACTION ON IMPORTANT EDUCATION INITIATIVES
  Today Sen. John W. Warner, R-Va. announced Senate action on two important education initiatives which he has helped lead. 
   First, the Senate has approved a two-year extension of a $250 tax deduction for educators who spend their own money on classroom supplies. Second, Senator Warner has joined three colleagues in introducing a bipartisan bill to double the Federal Pell Grant benefits for eligible students who pursue courses vital to national security.  
   Senate Approves Teacher Tax-Credit Extension 
   As part of negotiations last week on the FSC-ETI tax legislation with the Chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, Senator Charles Grassley, R-Iowa, Senator Warner helped arrange the adoption of the extension in the Committee's bill, which the Senate approved May 11 by a vote of 92-5. 
   Senator Warner had filed an amendment to make the teacher tax deduction permanent, but the Senate was finally able to agree on a two-year extension. 
   In 2002, Senator Warner worked with his colleagues to pass the original Teacher Tax Relief Act, which provides teachers an "above-the-line" deduction in the amount of $250 for expenses they incur in purchasing supplies for the classroom. However, the deduction in the original bill expired after two years. 
   If accepted by the House of Representatives, Warner's provision will extend the deduction again, providing approximately $500 million in federal tax relief for teachers over the next two years. 
   "As they work hard for our children, America's teachers often reach into their own pockets to make sure they have the best classroom supplies. I feel strongly that the federal government should help make up for their personal financial burden - which some estimate at over $500 per year - by way of a modest tax break. It's the right thing to do." 
   Now passed by the Senate, Senator Warner's provision requires the approval of a House-Senate conference, after which both chambers must pass the final version of the bill. The legislation then needs the signature of the President to become law. 
   Warner, Colleagues Introduce "Federal Pell Grant Plus" Bill 
   Senator Warner, the Chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, also announced that he has joined three of his colleagues in introducing the "21st Century Federal Pell Grant Plus Bill," aimed at encouraging American students to study fields related to national, homeland and economic security. 
   Under current law, the $13.1 billion a year federal Pell Grant program awards grants to eligible students regardless of the course of study that they choose to pursue. 
   Recognizing that continued achievement in science, engineering and foreign languages is essential to preserving America's security, Senator Warner joined with Senator George Allen, R-Va., Senator Joseph Lieberman, D-Conn., and Senator Pat Roberts, R-Kansas, in introducing a bill that would double the benefits for eligible students who pursue studies in these and similar fields. 
   The legislation provides that at least every two years, the Secretary of Education, in consultation with the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and others, would develop a list of courses of study that help America meet its national, homeland, and economic security needs. 
   Students eligible for Pell Grants who pursued these courses would be eligible for double their current benefit. 
   Senator Warner said, "An educated workforce is critically important to America, no matter what the field. However, when spending taxpayer dollars, Congress has an obligation to do so in a manner that meets our critical needs, which, in the war on terror, include stimulating achievement in fields related to national security. 
   "This bill represents a sensible modification of the Pell Grant program that continues our commitment to education while encouraging students to contribute to national, homeland and economic security."
 
 