SEN. WARNER URGES ACCELERATION OF FUNDING FOR TRANSITION FROM WALTER REED
  On Wednesday evening, Sen. John W. Warner, R-Va., wrote the following letter to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, opposing the reopening of the Base Realignment and Closure decision to close Walter Reed Army Medical Center, and urging instead that funding for the currently planned transition to higher quality medical facilities at Bethesda Naval Medical Center in Maryland and Fort Belvoir in Virginia be accelerated by way of $123 million in additional outlays in the upcoming Emergency Supplemental Appropriations bill. 
   In his letter, Senator Warner also indicates that "we will ensure the Department provides funds and resources to maintain optimum care for our service members at Walter Reed until the day they are ready to transition to the new facilities."  
   Further, Senator Warner states that, "Under the auspices of the Senate Armed Services Committee, I will conduct a thorough review of the Department's BRAC plan to ensure capabilities and facilities will exceed the current patient care offered to our military community." 
   The full text of Senator Warner's letter appears below. 
   March 20, 2007 
   The Honorable Robert C. Byrd, Chairman 
   The Honorable Thad Cochran, Ranking Member 
   Committee on Appropriations 
   United States Senate 
   Washington, DC 20510 
   Dear Chairman Byrd and Ranking Member Cochran: 
   The 2005 Defense Base Closure and Realignment (BRAC) round requires the Department of Defense to close Walter Reed Army Medical Center (WRAMC) by September 15, 2011 and to establish a state-of-the art, joint National Medical Center at the location of the current National Naval Medical Center in Bethesda, MD. The Department is also required to realign or establish additional hospital care capabilities at Fort Belvoir, VA, Fort Sam Houston TX, and various other locations around the country. The Department of Defense will transform legacy medical infrastructure into a premier, modern joint operational medical facility and is expected to achieve an annual savings of over $145 million, while maintaining the highest standards of patient care during the transition. These goals are particularly important in light of recent revelations of serious deficiencies in outpatient facilities and processes at WRAMC. 
   I wholeheartedly support the Department's goal. I strongly oppose any legislation that would alter or reverse the BRAC decision. I firmly believe that this unprecedented proposal, if adopted, will result in the pursuit by Members of Congress of other BRAC reversals, leading to the eventual collapse of the BRAC process that we have adopted for 20 years as the most fair and impartial method for the closure of military installations. More importantly, we will be denying the Department a prime opportunity to vastly improve processes for our wounded service members. We cannot afford to maintain 213 facilities on an 100-year old, 113 acre campus with an inefficient layout and deteriorated infrastructure that continues to directly affects the quality of patient care. We instead owe our wounded service members the best care using the latest technology and equipment in new, efficiently planned facilities that are provided in the most expedient manner. Therefore, I ask your consideration for additional funds in the Emergency Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2007 that will be used to accelerate the construction of hospitals and community support facilities at Bethesda and Fort Belvoir by up to 1 year. Specifically, I recommend that $31 million be directed to expedite new hospital construction activities at Bethesda and $92 million for expedited construction of a new hospital at Fort Belvoir, Virginia. I have received assurances from the Department of Defense that the funds added to the Emergency Supplemental will substantially advance the goal of completing new hospital facilities more quickly for our military members. 
   I believe legitimate questions have been raised about the Department's planned end-state capacity of medical facilities in the National Capitol Region and the potential for patient care disruption during the transition to the new locations. Under the auspices of the Senate Armed Services Committee, I will conduct a thorough review of the Department's BRAC plan to ensure capabilities and facilities will exceed the current patient care offered to our military community. In addition, we will ensure the Department provides funds and resources to maintain optimum care for our service members at Walter Reed until the day they are ready to transition to the new facilities. Any concerns currently expressed about the capacity or quality of current care as a result of BRAC are compelling reasons to accelerate the construction of new facilities, not to advocate for the status quo. Our military personnel, especially those injured in combat, should not have to contend with a deteriorated and failing medical infrastructure when the Department is in the process of carrying out a plan to correct the problems. 
   With kind regards, I am 
   Sincerely, 
   John Warner.
 
 