SENS. WARNER, WEBB COMMENT ON NAVY ANNOUNCEMENT OF POTENTIAL OUTLYING LANDING FIELD SITES
  The secretary of the Navy and the chief of naval operations today announced the completion of an initial assessment of potential sites to relocate the Navy's Outlying Landing Field (OLF) to support training requirements for all carrier air-wing aircraft based at Naval Air Station Oceana and Naval Station Norfolk.  
   After a thorough review of input provided by the Commonwealth of Virginia and the State of North Carolina, Navy leadership determined the need to terminate the present draft Supplemental Environment Impact Statement (SEIS), and initiate a new Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) to analyze the impact of operations and construction at five locations. Three sites are located in Virginia - at Cabin Point, Dory and Mason - and two are in North Carolina. The Navy intends to hold public meetings on the new EIS this spring. The service also anticipates a 30-month analysis of the new sites. 
   "This is an important step in a deliberative process designed to ensure that our naval aviators have a suitable training location of the quality and scope necessary to maintain and refine their skills," said Warner. 
   "I commend the Navy for its diligent and responsible approach in taking all comments into consideration. As the service proceeds with its assessment of the impact of the final site, it is vital that all affected communities and residents participate in a transparent and open process that allows them to fully express their viewpoints."
   "With this decision, the Navy has reemphasized the importance of preserving Naval Air Station Oceana as the Navy's East Coast Master Jet Base," Webb said. 
   "The Navy has pledged to work closely with the communities in Virginia and North Carolina that will be involved in the new EIS process. This will include finding common ground in order to mitigate potential impacts, and also identifying innovative opportunities for the affected communities to obtain revenue. This strikes me as the best way to protect the future of NAS Oceana, while also addressing the views of local communities and citizens."
 
 