SEN. WARNER ISSUES STATEMENT ON WARNER-NELSON-COLLINS RESOLUTION ON IRAQ
  We are here not to contravene the Constitutional authorities of the President as Commander-in-Chief, but, rather, to accept the offer to Congress made by the President on January 10, 2007 that, "if members have improvements that can be made, we will make them. If circumstances change, we will adjust;"  
   It is clear that the United States' strategy and operations in Iraq can only be sustained and achieved with support from the American people and with a level of bipartisanship in Congress; 
   The purpose of this resolution is not to cut our forces or to set a timetable for withdrawal, but, rather, to express the genuine concerns of a number of Senators from both parties about the President's plan. 
   It is not meant to be confrontational, but instead to provide a sense of bipartisan resolve on our strategy in Iraq. 
   It follows many of the conclusions of the Baker-Hamilton report by focusing on what is truly in our national interest in Iraq, namely: 
   That the primary objective of the overall U.S. strategy in Iraq should be: 
   to encourage Iraqi leaders to make political compromises that will foster reconciliation and strengthen the unity government, ultimately leading to improvements in the security situation 
   It states that the military part of this strategy should focus on: 
   1. maintaining the territorial integrity of Iraq, 
   2. denying international terrorists a safe haven, 
   3. conducting counterterrorism operations, 
   4. promoting regional stability, and 
   5. training and equipping Iraqi forces to take full responsibility for their own security; 
   Further it states that United States military operations should, as much as possible, be confined to these goals, and charges the Iraqi military with the primary mission of combating sectarian violence; 
   As such, our Resolution states that: 
   "the Senate disagrees with the 'plan' to augment our forces by 21,500, and urges the President instead to consider all options and alternatives for achieving the strategic goals [outlined above] with reduced force levels than proposed;"
 
 