SEN. WARNER ANNOUNCES SENATE CONFIRMATION OF WALTER KELLEY AS U.S. JUDGE FOR EASTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA
  Today, Sen. John W. Warner, R-Va., announced that the Senate has confirmed the nomination of Walter Kelley as a judge on the U.S. District Court in the Eastern District of Virginia, by a unanimous vote of 94-0. 
   Senator Warner delivered the following Senate floor statement in support of Mr. Kelley's nomination: 
   "Mr. President, I rise today in support of the nomination of Walter Kelley, who has been nominated by our President to serve as a judge on the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia. 
   "Article II, Section 2 of the Constitution provides the President with the authority to nominate, with the 'Advice and Consent of the Senate,' individuals to serve as judges on the federal courts. Thus, the Constitution provides a role for both the President and the Senate in this process. The President has the power to nominate, and the Senate has the power to render 'Advice and Consent' on the nomination. 
   "In fulfilment of this Constitutional responsibility, after Judge Morgan of the Eastern District of Virginia bench took senior status, Senator Allen and I had the honor of recommending Walter Kelley to President Bush to fill that vacancy. After reviewing our recommendations, President Bush nominated Mr. Kelley. 
   "Mr. Kelley's nomination was subsequently received by the Senate, and in a timely fashion, the Senate Judiciary Committee provided its unanimous approval of this nominee. I am grateful to Chairman Hatch and Senator Leahy for their hard work in moving this nomination forward. And, I am grateful to the leadership on both sides of the aisle for bringing Mr. Kelley's nomination before the full Senate. 
   "When Senator Allen and I first learned of the vacancy on the Eastern District of Virginia bench, we began our search to find the most qualified and well-respected individual to fill that vacancy. During that process, one name repeatedly was brought up: that name was Walt Kelley. 
   "Walt Kelley graduated with his bachelor's degree, cum laude, in 1977 from my alma mater, Washington & Lee University. Then, after working for a year as a Press Secretary to a member of the United States House of Representatives, he returned to Washington & Lee and earned his law degree, magna cum laude. 
   "Subsequent to law school, Mr. Kelley served as a law clerk to a judge on the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, in New York City. We are fortunate in Virginia that after he completed his clerkship, Mr. Kelley returned to his home town of Norfolk, Virginia, to practice law. 
   "Since then, for the past 22 years, Walt Kelley has practiced law for two of Virginia's best law firms, Wilcox & Savage PC, and Troutman Sanders LLP. During these two decades plus of his legal career, his practice has focused primarily on complex business litigation before the federal courts. 
   "Moreover, during these 22 years, Mr. Kelley has earned a reputation for not only being one of the best lawyers in Virginia, but also being one of the best lawyers in America. Each year, since 1997, he has been listed in The Best Lawyers in America for business litigation. This is a publication that lists the 'best' lawyers in America based on the recommendations of other lawyers all across America. 
   "But, not only is Mr. Kelley dedicated to his family and to his legal career, he also has taken the time to give back to his community. In addition to other community activities, he is a member and the former rector of the Old Dominion University Board of Visitors in Norfolk, Virginia, and he is a member of the Virginia Business Higher Education Council. 
   "Mr. President, Walt Kelley has my strong support and the strong support of Senator Allen. In addition, he has the support of Virginia's legal community. The Virginia State Bar; Virginia Bar Association; the Virginia Association of Defense Attorneys; and the Norfolk & Portsmouth Bar Association all support Mr. Kelley's nomination. Furthermore, the American Bar Association has unanimously rated Mr. Kelley as 'well qualified' for this judgeship. 
   "I know that Walt Kelley is a fine nominee. If confirmed, he will serve on the bench in Virginia with distinction. 
   "I urge my colleagues to support his nomination."
 
 