SEN. WARNER ISSUES STATEMENT FOR SUBCOMMITTEE HEARING ON AMERICA'S CLIMATE SECURITY ACT
  Senator Lieberman, my fellow subcommittee members, and distinguished witnesses, I am proud to begin the America's Climate Security Act's journey through the legislative process today with this subcommittee hearing. 
   Senator Lieberman has accurately described the components of the bill, so I would like to address the process we have taken and will continue to undertake with regard to this bill. We are open 24-7 for ideas.  
   I recognize the interest my colleagues have in holding additional hearings directly related to provisions in our bill. In the interest of balancing their interest with my own, shared by Senator Lieberman, in moving this bill along, I propose we schedule two full committee hearings for the Tuesday and Thursday of the week after the subcommittee markup. 
   Now, a word on the bill. In brief, it is my view that America cannot afford to continue to stay on the sidelines. We need to get on the field. Our government has 3 co-equal branches of government, and one of these, the judicial branch, has spoken. In April, the United States Supreme Court ruled that greenhouse gases are air pollutants. The executive branch favors a voluntary approach to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Now is the time for the legislative branch to begin movement on a well conceived mandatory greenhouse gas emissions reduction program. I am eager to see the Senate take the lead. And I look forward to the House proceeding. 
   I continue to hope that the Chairman and Ranking Member of the full committee will find the time to consider the subcommittee's markup. 
   If our full committee completes its markup before the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change Conference of Parties in Bali in December, the U.S. will emerge as a leader. It will send a rare signal from 1 ? branches of government. 
   In short, I want to see the United States credibly enter the realm of world leadership on this issue producing legislative action here at home. 
   The bill before us relies heavily on the pioneering work done here by many. I point to the accomplishments of the first President Bush, as he broke the logjam on the Clean Air Act amendments by campaigning on the issue in 1988. His Administration presented the idea of a cap and trade system, one that has worked effectively in the Acid Rain Program. My friend, Senator Baucus helped hone and usher the amendments through this body, and today, the success of the Acid Rain Program speaks for its self. 
   To underscore the urgency of the economic and energy situation facing our nation now, one need only look at a recent permit denial for a power plant in Kansas. Last week, the Kansas Department of Health and Environment cited carbon dioxide emissions as the reason for rejecting an air permit for coal-fired power plants. 
   Furthermore, nationally, plans for at least 16 plants have been scrapped this year with another 76 plans on hold with a very uncertain future. This is why Congress needs to move, so the private sector has certainty. 
   These actions have significant economic impacts. 
   How are we going to meet our power needs for economic growth in this country if we do not provide the regulatory certainty to enable that growth? 
   Our country relies on power fueled by our nation's largest natural resource: coal. In order to create the certainty needed for further investments to occur in the power sector, in order to meet our country's growing energy needs, a federal regulatory structure for greenhouse gases needs to be enacted. 
   I thank the subcommittee members, all of whom Senator Lieberman and I met with personally. In the pages of our bill are many of the ideas brought to our attention in those meetings. We may not always agree on how to address the issue of climate change, but this bill is intended to provide the vehicle by which the Senate will work its will on this pressing challenge before us. 
   I look forward to the continued dialogue and to hearing the views of today's witnesses.
 
 