SEN. WARNER ISSUES STATEMENT ON NOMINATION OF JUDGE SOUTHWICK TO SERVE ON U.S. COURT OF APPEALS FOR FIFTH CIRCUIT
  Mr. WARNER. Mr. President, I rise today in support of the nomination of Judge Leslie Southwick to serve on the United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. 
   Article II, Section 2 of the United States Constitution explicitly provides the responsibilities of the Executive Branch of government and the Senate with respect to judicial nominations. Article II, Section 2 of the Constitution reads, in part, that the President "shall nominate, and by and with the Advice and Consent of the Senate, shall appoint Judges of the Supreme Court and all other Officers of the United States " 
   Thus, the Constitution provides the President of the United States with the responsibility of nominating individuals to serve on our federal bench. 
   The Constitution provides the Senate with the responsibility of providing advice to the President on those nominations and with the responsibility of providing or withholding consent on those nominations. 
   In this respect, Article II, Section 2 of our Constitution places our federal judiciary - a co-equal branch of government - in a unique posture with respect to the other two co-equal branches of our federal government. Unlike the Executive Branch and unlike the Congress, the Constitution places the composition and continuity of our federal judiciary entirely within the coordinated exercise of responsibilities of the other two branches of government. Only if the President and the Senate fairly, objectively and in a timely fashion exercise these respective constitutional powers, can the Judicial branch of government be composed and maintained so that our courts can function and serve the American people. 
   For this reason, in my view, a Senator has no higher duty than his or her constitutional responsibilities under Article II, Section 2 - the advice and consent clause. 
   During the course of my twenty-eight years in the United States Senate, I have always tried to fairly and objectively review a judicial nominee's credentials prior to deciding whether I will vote to provide consent on a nomination. I look at a wide range of factors, primarily: character, professional career, experience, integrity, and temperament for lifetime service on our courts. While I certainly recognize political considerations, it is my practice not to be bound by them. 
   Having reviewed Judge Southwick's nomination, in my view, he is eminently qualified to serve on the federal bench. I note that the American Bar Association, often cited as the "gold standard" of review of judicial nominees, agrees with me as it has given Judge Southwick's its highest rating of well-qualified. 
   Judge Southwick's credentials are well-known but worth repeating. He received his bachelor's degree, cum laude, from Rice University and then proceeded to law school at the University of Texas. 
   Subsequent to his law school graduation, he served as a law clerk for two jurists: a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit - the court for which he now has been nominated; and for a judge on the Texas Court of Criminal Appeals. 
   Upon completing his clerkships, Mr. Southwick entered private practice with a Law firm in Mississippi, starting as an associate but rising to the level of partner six years later. After twelve years of private practice, he joined the U.S. Department of Justice in the George H. W. Bush Administration, working as Deputy Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Rights Division. 
   From 1995 until 2006, Leslie Southwick served as a member of the Mississippi Court of Appeals. During this time, Judge Southwick also served his country in uniform. 
   From 1992 through 1997, he was a member of the Judge Advocate General's Corps in the U.S. Army Reserve. And, in 2003, he volunteered to serve in a line combat unit, the 155th Separate Armor Brigade. In 2004, he took a leave of absence from the bench to serve in Iraq with the 155th Brigade Combat Team of the Mississippi National Guard. 
   Mr. President - Judge Southwick is obviously very well qualified to serve on the federal bench. Not only does he meet the requisite academic requirements, he also has real world experience in private practice and a dedication to public service. 
   In my view, he deserves to be confirmed to the federal bench. I urge my colleagues to support this eminently qualified nominee.
 
 