SEN. WARNER COMMENTS ON NOMINATION OF DANFORTH ON SENATE FLOOR
  Senator John W. Warner, R-Va.
  Chairman, Senate Armed Services Committee
  Senate Floor Statement on Nomination of John Danforth
   I rise today in support of the nomination of former Senator John Danforth to be U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations. I can think of no person better qualified to fill this critical position during the war on terrorism.  
   Senator Danforth is a true statesman, and is one of my closest friends over my 26 years of service in this Chamber. During his time in the Senate, our friend was a valued colleague and an even more valuable servant of the people of Missouri. He was first elected in 1976, two years before I came to the Senate, and served eighteen years in this body. The fact that he was elected to three consecutive six-year terms from the "Show Me" state of Missouri illustrates his remarkable wisdom and his ability to listen to his constituents in deciding important issues of the day. 
   After leaving the Senate, our colleague remained in service to his country, chairing a committee that reviewed the federal response to the Branch Davidian activity in Waco, Texas. More recently, Senator Danforth served as special envoy to the Sudan - an area of the world experiencing a particularly difficult and tragic humanitarian situation. In this capacity, he continued to demonstrate the compassion and goodwill that we became so familiar with in this body. 
   Senator Danforth left the Senate to answer a calling to the Episcopal priesthood. Even while he served among us in the Senate, our colleague volunteered on occasion as a pastor at the National Cathedral, where my own uncle served as rector in St. Albans Parish nearly three-quarters of a century ago. I was baptized and confirmed there on the Cathedral close, and was married at a chapel of that Cathedral just this past year. Senator Danforth and I not only were close friends; we shared a special bond of affection for that great Cathedral, which played such an important role in both of our lives. 
   And most recently, our good friend did such a magnificent job officiating in that same Cathedral at the funeral of President Ronald Reagan. Hearing our colleague's voice at that historic and difficult occasion gave comfort to each of us who were humbled to attend that ceremony. He did us proud; and we expected no less. 
   Now our dear colleague opens the next chapter of his exemplary career in public service. In these most difficult of times, when our relations with our allies are so critical to our fight against a new enemy, I am confident that our good friend will carry himself with the same distinction - the same wisdom and thoughtfulness - that he demonstrated, over the years, next to us, in this very Chamber. Mr. President, each of us, as Americans, is fortunate that our colleague will once again be by our side in this critical public role. 
   I wish our dear friend all the best in his important new post. 
   I yield the floor.
 
 