SENS. WARNER, WEBB ANNOUNCE SENATE COMMITTEE APPROVAL OF KEY DEFENSE PROVISIONS AFFECTING VIRGINIA
  On Friday, May 25, Sen. John W. Warner, R-Va., and Sen. Jim Webb, D-Va., members of the Senate Committee on Armed Services, announced that the panel has approved several key provisions affecting Virginia's efforts in support of our men and women in uniform. Following is the list of the provisions: 
   Southwest Virginia 
   The Committee authorized an additional $20 million in new funding for facilities and safety upgrades at Radford Army Ammunition Plant. This represents a substantial increase from the Administration's budget request and will help modernize aging infrastructure at Radford.  
   Northern Virginia 
   The Committee authorized the General Services Administration to transfer its warehouse site at Springfield, near Fort Belvoir, to the Department of the Army to help satisfy 2005 Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission requirements and mitigate traffic congestion problems in the region. 
   In addition, the Committee recommended $277 million for continued development of the Kinetic Energy Interceptor, a key element of the country's missile defense program, with important research and development support activities in Reston. 
   In military construction, the Committee authorized the following projects consistent with the Administration's budget request: 
   Quantico 
   Student quarters building $26.8 million BEQ upgrades $18.8 million Warfare Program Support Center $5 million Reserve Center Additions $2.4 million 
   Fort Belvoir Defense Access Road Phase 3 $13 million Entrance Gate Security $5 million 
   Fort Myer Unit Ops Facility $8.4 million Barracks $12.4 million 
   Hampton Roads 
   The Committee authorized the Secretary of the Navy to enter into multiyear procurement contracts for Virginia-class nuclear-powered attack submarines. The Committee also authorized an additional $470 million to begin advanced procurement of materials necessary to begin construction of two Virginia-class submarines per year in 2010, rather than 2012 as the Administration had recommended. 
   Additionally, the Committee authorized $2.8 billion for full funding for construction of the next aircraft carrier, the Gerald R. Ford (CVN-78), in line with the Administration's request. 
   In military construction, the Committee authorized $14 million in additional spending above the Administration's budget request for a new U.S. Joint Forces Command Headquarters building at Naval Station Norfolk. 
   The Committee also authorized the following military construction funding in line with the Administration's request: 
   Naval Station Norfolk MH-60S Hangar and Field $53.85 million E2/C2 Aircrew Training Facility $11.51 million 
   NAS Oceana Dam Neck Annex SOF Operations Facility $94.5 million SOF Operational Training Facility $14 million 
   NAB Little Creek New Special Operations Forces HQ $51 million SEAL Team Ops and Supt. Facility $34 million Special Boat Team Ops Facility $14 million 
   Fort Eustis Barracks $32 million Unit Ops Facility $43 million 
   Richmond Area 
   The Committee approved the Administration's request for the following two military construction projects at Fort Lee: 
   Unit Ops Facility $9.8 million 
   Barracks $8 million 
   Winchester 
   The Committee authorized $3 million in new funding, separate from the Administration's request, for construction of a new field maintenance shop (FMS) in Winchester. The new FMS will replace the existing facility to provide the maintenance space required to sustain and repair the vehicles and equipment of the assigned units and other units in northwest Virginia. The new facility will be located adjacent to the new Winchester Readiness Center, which has already been funded, with a construction contract to be awarded by September 30, 2007. 
   Virginia National Guard 
   The Committee authorized $13 million in additional funding above the Administration's request for the Virginia National Guard's top priorities and unfunded requirements, to improve command-and-control capabilities and to ensure enhanced readiness for units operating both overseas and in Virginia during times of emergency. 
   Educational Funding 
   The Committee authorized $9.5 million for research and science outreach programs for colleges and elementary and secondary schools around the state, including: 
   Virginia Tech 
   $2 million for Biomechanics research 
   $4 million for research on the National Incident Management System 
   George Mason University 
   $1 million for the Center for Blast Mitigation and Protection 
   Norfolk State University 
   $1.5 million for Information Assurance Research 
   Other 
   $1 million for Naval Science and Technology Outreach (a joint science education outreach program for local K-12 students administered by the Office of Naval research in cooperation with the College of William and Mary and scientists and engineers from Naval Surface Warfare Center Dahlgren) 
   Base Realignment and Closing Commission 
   The Committee approved report language sponsored by Senators Warner and Webb that directs the Secretary of the Navy, if deciding to conduct the study recently recommended by the House of Representatives on naval aviation basing alternatives to Oceana Naval Air Station, "to expend the absolute minimal amount of manpower and resources necessary to satisfy the request." 
   The Committee also recommended an increase of $5 million for the Navy to fund a follow-on supplemental environmental impact statement to assess the feasibility of alternative outlying-landing-field (OLF) sites in the region within suitable range of both Naval Air Station Oceana and Marine Corps Air Station Cherry Point, North Carolina. 
   Additionally, the Committee approved the Administration's request for $1.6 billion in military construction funding for Virginia installations to help keep the 2005 BRAC recommendations on schedule. 
   Senator Warner said, "I am pleased that Committee members have come together once again in a bipartisan way to agree on legislation that will provide the resources to our men and women in uniform, and their families, as they stand guard in some 60 countries around the world. Our forces are protecting us here at home, and those of us on the Committee have a very sacred and special trust to take care of them, and their families. 
   "I am particularly proud of Virginia's contribution to our national defense, and these provisions will ensure that the Commonwealth will continue to help our men and women in uniform perform their vital missions to protect our country." 
   Senator Webb said, "The committee's recommended legislation will make significant contributions to the readiness and modernization of all branches of the armed forces. Most importantly, the committee's action relating to military personnel-including a 3.5 percent pay increase-recognizes the value we place on their service and sacrifice. We have a special obligation to see to the welfare of our men and women in uniform, and their families. 
   "I was pleased to work with Senator Warner in a bipartisan way to ensure that our recommendations focused on the services' highest priorities for recapitalization, including a stable Navy shipbuilding program and the Army's Future Combat System. The Air Force, Marine Corps, and National Guard also face major readiness challenges, and the committee's recommended legislation will provide them with the resources they require to meet their mission requirements more effectively today and tomorrow."
 
 