SEN. WARNER CASTS 10,000TH VOTE IN UNITED STATES SENATE
  Late yesterday evening, Sen. John W. Warner, R-Va., the Chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, cast his 10,000th vote in the United States Senate, becoming the first Virginia Senator in the history of the Senate to reach this milestone. 
   A total of 1,885 Senators have served in the 218-year history of the U.S. Senate, and, with his vote Wednesday, Senator Warner becomes the 26th Senator to reach the 10,000 mark.  
   Senator Warner is the second-longest serving Senator from Virginia, with Harry F. Byrd Sr. holding the record for longest service. 
   Senator Warner said, "I humbly thank the dear Lord for the strength and wisdom He has given me, for the support and the friendship of - I calculated - the 241 Senators I have served with during this time, and for a family that has stood by me for these many years. 
   "To the people of Virginia, I express thanks. And to whoever up there provides luck, I am the luckiest man you have ever met." 
   Following is the Congressional Record from yesterday evening recognizing Senator Warner's milestone: 
   SENATOR WARNER 'S 10,000TH VOTE 
   Mr. FRIST, [THE MAJORITY LEADER]: Mr. President, I would like to pay special tribute to the senior Senator from Virginia, Mr. John Warner. Tonight he just cast his 10,000th vote. 
   (Applause, Members rising.) 
   Mr. FRIST: This year, Senator Warner became the second longest serving U.S. Senator from Virginia in the 218-year history of the Senate. Since arriving in the Senate 27 years ago, he has forged a long and distinguished record, especially on issues concerning the Armed Forces. He has addressed some of the most fundamental security issues facing this Nation, including the revitalization of the Armed Forces under President Reagan, the restructuring of the military following our success in the Cold War, and the countering of emerging threats from foreign nations and terrorist groups. 
   It is my pleasure to call Senator Warner a colleague and a friend. He is a Senator's Senator, representing the best in this august institution. We all congratulate him on his lifetime commitment to serving this country with honor and distinction. 
   (Applause, Members rising.) 
   The PRESIDING OFFICER: The minority leader. 
   Mr. REID [THE MINORITY LEADER]: Mr. President, when I first came to the Senate, I had the honor of serving on the Environment and Public Works Committee with John Warner. During part of my tenure there, he was chairman of that committee. No one is more of a gentleman than John Warner. 
   John Warner has a background that is really something all Americans should understand. John Warner was born in Virginia, attended Washington and Lee College, Virginia Law School. At age 17, he joined the Navy. That was during World War II. But that wasn't enough for him for military service. He again joined the military during the Korean conflict, joining the Marine Corps. He thereafter became Secretary of the Navy and served with distinction as Secretary of the Navy. 
   I think it is only appropriate that John Warner cast his 10,000th vote just a week or two after his partner and friend, Carl Levin. There is no better example of teamwork than we have had on the Armed Services Committee with John Warner and Carl Levin. It is good that these two brothers were both honored for having cast their 10,000th vote within a matter of weeks of each other. It has been a pleasure to work with both of them. 
   (Applause, Members rising.) 
   The PRESIDING OFFICER: The Senator from Michigan. 
   Mr. LEVIN: Since I got there first, I insist upon being recognized first. I will be very brief. I will only say that there is no greater example of civility and decency and honor and integrity in the U.S. Senate than John Warner. It is a privilege and true honor to have served with him. He is the most accommodating of Senators. I will sum it up with one thing: as long as there are John Warners in the Senate, the Senate is in good hands. 
   (Applause, Members rising.) 
   The PRESIDING OFFICER: The junior Senator from Virginia. 
   Mr. ALLEN: Mr. President, as the senior Senator from Virginia always refers to me as the ``junior Senator from Virginia,'' what an honor it is to serve with Senator John Warner. He has served our country since World War II, through Korea, in a variety of ways. He is a genuine American hero who has just made history tonight, his 10,000th vote cast. 
   There have only been 25 other Senators in the 218 years of the U.S. Senate who have cast that many votes. I know I speak for the people of Virginia, as his partner, and for all of our colleagues on both sides of the aisle, we look forward to casting many more votes with this genuine American hero who has devoted his life to freedom, to justice, and showing us the proper manners, cordiality, and also the way to get things done for the American people. 
   We all salute you, Senator John Warner. 
   (Applause, Members rising.) 
   The PRESIDING OFFICER: The Senator from Virginia. 
   Mr. WARNER: Mr. President, the hour is late. I humbly thank the dear Lord for the strength and wisdom He has given me, for the support and the friendship of-I calculated-the 241 Senators I have served with during this time, and for a family that has stood by me for these many years. 
   To the people of Virginia, I express thanks. And to whoever up there provides luck, I am the luckiest man you have ever met. 
   I yield the floor.
 
 