JOHN KLUGE DONATES $1 MILLION IN MATCHING GIFT TO BROWN V. BOARD SCHOLARSHIP FUND
  Governor Mark R. Warner today joined Sen. John Warner of Virginia in announcing a $1 million matching charitable gift from John Kluge of Charlottesville, who has given generously over many years to Virginia, primarily in the field of education, and, recently, to the Library of Congress.  
   Mr. Kluge has offered to donate $1 million to the Brown v. Board of Education Scholarship Program and Fund, to match the sum that Governor Warner will include in his request for consideration by the General Assembly. 
   The fund was created by SB 230, sponsored by Senator Benjamin Lambert and patroned in the House of Delegates by Delegate Viola Baskerville, to provide an educational opportunity to those Virginians whose schools were closed by local authorities between 1954 and 1964 following the U.S. Supreme Court decision in Brown v. Board of Education. 
   "I am privileged to have known and worked with John Kluge for many years. Mr. Kluge contacted me recently on his own initiative to express his willingness to assist in the state's desire to provide educational opportunities to those impacted by the closing of schools in Virginia a half century ago. I contacted the Governor, who expressed his own profound appreciation of Mr. Kluge's offer, and indicated his desire to have the Commonwealth match this generous gift," said Senator Warner. 
   At the request of the proponents of the legislation creating the scholarship fund, Governor Warner asked the General Assembly to appropriate $2 million to immediately provide those denied a public education by their own state new opportunities. The legislature funded that request at $50,000. 
   "New generations of Virginians have learned much about the policy of Massive Resistance in this 50th anniversary year of the landmark Brown v. Board of Education decision," said Governor Warner. "This extraordinarily generous offer gives the Commonwealth another chance to provide educational opportunity to these Virginians, and perhaps send a message of reconciliation and healing. Accordingly, I will submit a budget amendment to the legislature that matches this donation at the level of $1 million, and also appropriates Mr. Kluge's donation for a total of $2 million. It is my hope that legislators will accept this amendment, and I am grateful to Mr. Kluge for making the offer." 
   The Governor's budget amendments will be considered by the General Assembly in a one-day reconvened session scheduled for June 16, 2004. The Brown v. Board of Education Scholarship Program and Fund will officially be created July 1, 2004. Private donations can be made to it at that time through the State Council of Higher Education in Virginia.
 
 