CHAIRMAN WARNER, SEN. ALLEN INTRODUCE BILL PROVIDING COMBAT-ZONE TAX CREDIT FOR FEDERAL WORKERS
  Today Sen. John W. Warner, R-Va., the Chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, announced that he has introduced the Federal Employee Combat Zone Tax Parity Act, which would extend the tax credit currently received by military personnel in combat zones to civilian federal employees who work alongside them.  
   Senator George Allen, R-Va., a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, joined Chairman Warner in sponsoring the legislation. 
   Currently, the federal government provides certain incentives to individuals who take on challenging jobs overseas. For example, military personnel working in a combat zone to receive the Combat Zone Tax Credit, established in 1913, permitting them to exclude a certain amount of income from their federal income taxes. 
   Private contractors working in Iraq and Afghanistan get a similar benefit. Under the Foreign Earned Income Tax Credit, contractors are allowed to exclude a portion of their income from taxes while they work abroad, such as in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
   To date, however, no similar benefit exists for federal employees serving in the same combat zones. 
   By providing the same combat-zone tax credit to civilian federal employees as their military counterparts, Senator Warner's bill provides an important incentive to those workers who undertake overseas challenges. 
   Several federal employee organizations, such as the American Federation of Government Employees (AFGE), the National Treasury Employees Union (NTEU), the Financial Management Association (FMA), the Senior Executives Association (SEA), the American Foreign Service Association (AFSA), and the National Federation of Federal Employees (NFFE), strongly support the legislation. 
   Senator Warner's legislation continues his effort, initiated earlier this year, aimed at improving interagency coordination on Iraq and Afghanistan. 
   In April, he offered legislation, S.2600, that would provide the heads of agencies other than Department of State and the Department of Defense (DOD) with the authority, at their discretion, to give their employees who serve in Iraq and Afghanistan allowances, benefits, and gratuities comparable to those provided to State Department and DOD employees serving in those countries. 
   Upon introducing his bill, Senator Warner said, "In Iraq and Afghanistan, the teamwork of the entire federal government is essential to secure a measure of democracy for the peoples of those countries. Providing this important combat-zone tax credit would encourage more federal workers to help in this effort - a challenge that America desperately needs them to undertake." 
   Senator Allen said, "Today as we prosecute this War on Terror, the brave civilian workers serving in dangerous places such as Iraq and Afghanistan do so at a great emotional and financial cost to themselves and their families. This combat-zone tax credit that is being offered by my good friend and colleague Senator Warner, is a common sense and reasonable approach that is vital for retention and recruitment as well as showing the proper appreciation to these patriots." 
   The legislation, S.3959, has been referred to the Senate Committee on Finance for consideration.
 
 