SENS. WARNER, WEBB APPLAUD PASSAGE OF AMTRAK REAUTHORIZATION BILL
  A transportation bill co-sponsored by Senators John W. Warner (R-VA) and Jim Webb (D-VA) today was approved by the Senate, making significant investments in Virginia's mass transit system. The Passenger Rail Investment and Improvement Act of 2007 (S.294) authorizes $11.4 billion in federal funding over 6 years for Amtrak and seeks to improve the safety, efficiency and reliability of the nation's largest passenger rail service provider. 
   Amtrak operates over 20 trains daily in Virginia, including regional service to Richmond and Newport News. Additionally, Amtrak operates 31 daily Virginia Railway Express (VRE) commuter service trips under contract with the Northern Virginia Transportation Commission (NVTC) and Potomac and Rappahannock Transportation Commission (PRTC). 
   In 2006 alone, more than 900,000 passengers used Virginia rail services and it is estimated that an additional 1 million of the 3.7 million Amtrak passengers traveling in and out of Union Station in Washington, DC reside in Northern Virginia. Amtrak expended $48.2 million for goods and services in Virginia in Fiscal Year 2006 and employed 974 Virginia residents, investing an additional $57.8 million in wages. 
   "Since election to the U.S. Senate in 1978, I have been an advocate of multi-modal solutions to the country's transportation problems, including an emphasis on the importance of passenger and high-speed rail," said Senator Warner. "Therefore, I was pleased to be a co-sponsor of this important legislation, which passed overwhelming today."
   "With increasing traffic congestion in Virginia's main arteries, it's time to invest in long-term and diversified infrastructure projects," said Senator Webb. "Better and more reliable public transit, including rail service, means fewer cars on the road and less anxiety for Virginia commuters. In addition, Amtrak is a valuable source of revenue and employment for the Commonwealth." 
   Amtrak's last authorization expired in 2003 and has been given limited funding on a yearly basis. Senators Frank Lautenberg (D-NJ) and Trent Lott (R-MS) are lead sponsors of the bill.
 
 