SEN. WARNER ISSUES STATEMENT ON PACE OF TRANSITION TO NEW GOVERNMENT IN IRAQ
  Today, Sen. John W. Warner, R-Va., the Chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, released the following statement on the pace of the transition to a new government in Iraq:  
   "As one who admires the courageous steps that the Iraqi people are taking in the transition to democracy, I am concerned over the pace of the National Assembly's forming a new government. While forging consensus on a new government is especially tough given Iraq's history, I think the National Assembly must accelerate the process. 
   "The millions of Iraqis who went to the polls -- in defiance of terrorists -- had high expectations that the Assembly would seize the momentum of the elections and move swiftly and decisively to form a new government. The eyes of the world are watching, and the Assembly must not fail its people. 
   "The National Assembly risks losing this moment of opportunity by reverting to the ethnic, tribal, and religious differences that have dominated Iraq's country's recent, tragic past. The road map is clear: the Assembly must build the road to democracy on a foundation of unity, tolerance and mutual respect, and by finding ways to work together, instead of against one another. 
   "The Iraqi people do not want just a 'caretaker' interim government; they want strong leadership to bring about a greater degree of security and infrastructure improvement as they transition to the permanent government. 
   "To that end, each day of delay is a day that highlights differences instead of common ground. Each day of delay emboldens those who oppose freedom and democracy. Each day of delay brings more injury and loss of life. As General Abizaid, the commander of U.S. Central Command, says, 'The more uncertainty, the greater chance for escalated violence.' 
   "Once the interim government is formed, a further step can help improve security: 
   "The majority of Iraqi citizens recognize that they need the continued assistance of U.S. and coalition forces to establish nationwide order and develop their security forces. However, some polls of Iraqis, together with anecdotal evidence, reveal a lingering measure of resentment to the presence of foreign troops in Iraq. Insurgents, who certainly do not have the best interests of the Iraqi people in mind, try to manipulate this sentiment to foment unrest and justify their terrorist acts. 
   "The interim government can strike a blow against the insurgents by formally affirming the continuing need for coalition forces in Iraq, a presence clearly authorized by UN Security Council Resolution 1546. 
   "Senator Levin and I are firmly of the view that this important step would establish officially what is already evident: that coalition forces are indispensable partners in securing the country, itself an essential step toward Iraq rejoining the world community. By affirming the need for the coalition's presence, the new government will help Iraqis accelerate their own journey to self-sufficiency."
 
 