SEN. WARNER ISSUES STATEMENT ON NOMINATIONS OF JUDGE DAVIS, NOVAK TO U. S. DISTRICT COURT FOR EASTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA
  Statement Of Senator John Warner On The Nominations Of Judge Mark Davis And Mr. David Novak To The United States District Court For The Eastern District of Virginia
   Chairman Leahy, Senator Specter, and my other distinguished colleagues on the Senate's Judiciary Committee, I thank you for holding this confirmation hearing. Today, I am pleased to introduce an outstanding Virginian, the Honorable Mark Davis, who has been nominated by our President to serve as a federal judge on the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia. 
   Judge Davis is supported here today by his family and friends, including: his parents, Barbara and George Davis; his brother and his brother's wife, Michael and Donna Davis; his nephew, Justin Davis; and Judge Johnny Morrison, the most senior judge on the Third Judicial Circuit of Virginia.
   I believe one of a Senator's most important responsibilities is set out in Article II, Section 2, the advice and consent clause of the U.S. Constitution. It reads, "The President . . . shall nominate, and, by and with the Advice and Consent of the Senate, shall appoint . . . Judges . . ."
   For the last 30 years, I have participated in the advice and consent process for every single active federal judge sitting on the bench in Virginia and every active federal court of appeals judge sitting on the Fourth Circuit. In fact, in the case of Judge Davis and David Novak, I am now on my second round as I also recommended their predecessors to Presidents Ronald Reagan and George H.W. Bush.
   After interviewing more than a dozen candidates out of a very strong field of applicants, Senator Webb and I were honored to recommend both Judge Davis and David Novak for these federal judgeships.
   I also note that Senator Webb and I have worked closely together to provide the White House with recommendations of outstanding nominees to serve on the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit. I am pleased that the White House recently nominated Virginia Supreme Court Justice Steve Agee for one of the "Virginia" vacancies on the court, and I hope the Committee will soon schedule a confirmation hearing for Justice Agee.
   With respect to Judge Davis, I have had the privilege of knowing Mark for several years. In fact, he worked as an intern in my office while attending the University of Virginia, and then later, in 1984, he began his professional career as a Staff Assistant in my office before he went to law school.
   After earning his JD from the Washington & Lee University School of Law in 1988, Judge Davis served as a Law Clerk for the Honorable John MacKenzie on the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia.
   Subsequent to his clerkship, he entered the private legal practice, first at McGuire Woods and then at Carr & Porter. He worked as a litigation attorney on cases before both federal and state courts in several areas, including tort, maritime, and municipal and employment law.
   In 2003, the Virginia General Assembly unanimously confirmed him to serve as a judge on the Third Judicial Circuit of Virginia in Portsmouth, Virginia. Today, he serves as Chief Judge of this five-judge circuit.
   Mr. Chairman, Judge Davis is one of Virginia's best and brightest, and clearly he is eminently qualified to serve on this prestigious court. In addition to having the support of his home state Senators, Judge Davis received the highest recommendation of the Virginia State Bar Association and the American Bar Association.
   I urge my colleagues on the Committee to support his nomination.
   Also, the nomination of David Novak stems from the same bipartisan collaborative process that Senator Webb and I conducted.
   He is an eminently skilled prosecutor and will make an outstanding federal judge. Mr. Novak is supported here today by his family, including his wife Martha and his two daughters, Nicole and Katie.
   Simply put, David Novak is a highly impressive nominee. In 1983, he graduated from St. Vincent College with a Bachelor of Science degree. He then attended the Villanova University Law School and earned his JD in 1986. Subsequent to earning his law degree, Mr. Novak began his career in the Philadelphia District Attorney's Office and worked there for five years.
   In 1991, he served in the United States Department of Justice's Criminal Division, Money Laundering Section. Later that year, he served as an Assistant United States Attorney in the Southern District of Texas, where he successfully prosecuted members of the Cali and Mexican drug cartels and oversaw an international money laundering task force.
   In 1994, Mr. Novak moved to Richmond, Virginia, to serve as an Assistant US Attorney in the Richmond Division of the Eastern District of Virginia. Shortly after the September 11 attacks, he successfully prosecuted Zacarias Moussaoui for his role in the attacks. The investigation and trial lasted over four years and was one of the most complex criminal prosecutions this country has ever seen.
   Mr. Chairman, it is clear to me that David Novak is eminently qualified to serve on this prestigious court. Based on Mr. Novak's 20 year record as a prosecutor, his dedication to public service, and the fact that he earned the highest recommendations from both the American and Virginia State Bar Associations, Senator Webb and I jointly recommended him for this position.
   Before I conclude my remarks in support of Mr. Novak, I do want to note for the record that, prior to this hearing, I did bring to the attention of the Chairman, the Ranking Member, and their staffs an additional matter that may be explored in questions of the nominee. I have also consulted with the Administration on this matter.
   I thank the Chairman for holding today's hearing on this highly qualified nominee, and I urge my colleagues on the Committee to support his nomination.
 
 