SEN. WARNER ISSUES STATEMENT ON RESIGNATION OF TENET
  Today Sen. John W. Warner, R-Va., the Chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, and a member of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, delivered the following statement on the resignation of George Tenet as Director of Central Intelligence: 
   "I have known George Tenet for some 17 years, beginning when he was Staff Director on the Senate Intelligence Committee, on which I served from 1987-95, and as Vice Chairman from 1993-95. I have nothing but the greatest respect for Director Tenet and his wife, Stephanie.
   "Director Tenet and his wife called me at noon today from his office at Langley. He sounded upbeat and was very much looking forward to a hard-earned respite from the day-to-day challenges of directing our national Intelligence Community. Director Tenet has done extremely well in that post for a period of seven years, under two Presidents, through some of the most difficult and trying circumstances. He gave no indication whatsoever that he was pressured in his decision to resign.
   "Director Tenet's long tenure underscores his strong track-record of giving our nation's leaders the best intelligence he possibly could in challenging times, through two wars and many complex situations. Intelligence analysis is extremely difficult and often times murky. No one is going to have a 100% track record in that post, but I firmly believe that Director Tenet rendered the best analysis he possibly could through a myriad of complicated international developments.
   "There is no doubt that we will miss Director Tenet, but I agree with him that there are times when each of us in public service needs to consider our obligations to family and look to future challenges and opportunities. He has done that today, and I respect his decision.
   "At this point in time, the Senate would be well advised to let the President decide what course of action he deems best in the question of whether to seek a new nominee for the post between now and November."
 
 