SEN. WARNER ANNOUNCES INCLUSION OF TEMPORARY WORKER PROGRAM IN DEFENSE BILL
  Today, Sen. John Warner, R-Va., announced that the joint Senate and House conference on the Department of Defense supplemental spending bill has included an H-2B provision similar to the "Save our Small and Seasonal Businesses Act."  
   The provision allows for temporary workers to obtain visas for seasonal employment, giving small businesses an opportunity to remain open for business. 
   Currently, the H-2B program is in use by small businesses all over the country to keep their business afloat. This program allows businesses with seasonal needs to hire foreign workers legally in order to supplement their permanent and seasonal domestic workforce, with a national cap annually of 66,000 workers. 
   These foreign employees are hired as resort workers, landscapers and seafood processors, and provide a short-term workforce when there are not enough domestic workers available. Employers utilizing this program must try to recruit U.S. workers for their businesses, and when the employers have proven there is an insufficient number to support their business, they can then turn to the program. 
   For the second year in a row, the cap on the H-2B program was reached far earlier than in years past. Due to the limitations, many businesses were forced to curtail their hiring, which, in turn, decreased their production. These results could have been avoided if there had been enough foreign workers allowed to work. 
   The legislative fix agreed upon yesterday is a short-term solution to the shortage, in that it does not change the annual cap, but rather it exempts workers who have legally been through the process before from going through the system again, and allows them to return for the next season. 
   Senator Warner cosponsored this effort with Senator George Allen, R-VA, Senator Judd Gregg, R-N.H., and Senator Barbara Mikulski, D-MD. 
   Senator Warner said, "This legislation is absolutely essential to protecting our small businesses and maintaining their positive impact on our economy. I am hopeful that this legislation will help small and seasonal businesses find enough workers to keep their doors open." 
   Now approved by the House-Senate conferees, the legislation needs final approval of the full House and Senate before it is submitted to the President for his signature.
 
 