ARMED SERVICES COMMITTEE COMPLETES MARKUP OF FY 2007 NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION BILL
  Today Sen. John W. Warner, R-Va., the Chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, and Sen. Carl Levin, D-Mich., the Committee's Ranking Minority Member, announced that the Committee has completed its markup of the National Defense Authorization Bill for Fiscal Year 2007, the annual legislation authorizing funds for the Department of Defense and the national security programs of the Department of Energy.  
   This year, the committee recommended funding $467.7 billion in budget authority for defense programs in fiscal year 2007, an increase of $26.2 billion - or 4.1% in real terms - above the amount authorized by the Congress last year. 
   The committee also recommended $50.0 billion in emergency supplemental funding for fiscal year 2007 for activities in support of operations in Iraq, Afghanistan, and the global war on terrorism. 
   Chairman Warner said, "I am pleased that Committee members have come together once again in a bipartisan way to agree on legislation that will provide the resources to our men and women in uniform, and their families, as they stand guard the world over - in some 60 countries - and fight the war on terror in Iraq and Afghanistan. Our forces are protecting us here at home, and those of us on the Committee have a very sacred and special trust to take care of them, and their families." 
   Senator Levin said, "This bill provides our armed forces the equipment and support they need at a time when they are engaged in combat in Afghanistan and Iraq, forward deployed throughout the world, or training at home to hone the skills necessary to carry out whatever missions are assigned to them. I am particularly pleased that this bipartisan bill was reported out of Committee on a unanimous vote since this is Senator Warner's last year as Committee Chairman." 
   A full summary of the bill can be found at http://www.armed-services.senate.gov/press/07mark.pdf. 
   Now passed by the Senate Armed Services Committee, the bill will be taken up for consideration by the full Senate as early as the end of this month. Once the Senate passes the legislation, it needs to be reconciled with the version passed by the House of Representatives, and then approved by both chambers and signed by the President to become law.
 
 