VIRGINIA CONGRESSIONAL DELEGATION ASKS FOR ONE-YEAR EXTENSION ON 'NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND' ENGLISH TESTING
  On January 5, 2007 the bipartisan Virginia Congressional Delegation released a letter sent yesterday evening to U.S. Secretary of Education Margaret Spellings addressing issues raised by the Department of Education's rejection of the Virginia test required by the "No Child Left behind Act" to measure the progress of immigrants learning English as a second language. 
   In the letter, the Delegation asked for a one-year extension for using an alternative assessment for testing Limited English Proficiency (LEP) students required by NCLB.  
   On June 28, 2006, the Virginia Department of Education received notice from the U.S. Department of Education that its current test would not meet the criteria necessary as an alternate assessment for LEP students. 
   In November, Senator John W. Warner, R-Va., wrote the Secretary on the issue, asking her to work with the Commonwealth on implementation of the Act with regard to ESL testing. 
   In their letter, the Delegation Members said, "Now, in January 2007, half-way through the current school year, it is logistically impossible for Virginia to develop, test, and train personnel in a new assessment for use in April 2007," the members wrote. 
   They continued, "Accordingly, should the U.S. Department of Education not grant an extension, it is likely that a large number of Virginia schools will fail to meet Adequate Yearly Progress (AYP) ratings in the coming year and enter sanctions - not because the schools are not successful, but simply because of realistic logistical problems in developing, preparing for, and administering a new test in the middle of the school year. 
   "In our view, such a result, which would be based on logistics rather than the true measure of a student's knowledge, would certainly be contrary to the important goals of No Child Left Behind." 
   Signing the letter was the entire Virginia Congressional Delegation, including Senator Warner, Senator Jim Webb, and Representatives Jo Ann Davis, Thelma Drake, Robert C. Scott, J. Randy Forbes, Virgil H. Goode Jr., Robert W. Goodlatte, Eric Cantor, James P. Moran, Rick Boucher, Frank R. Wolf, and Thomas M. Davis III. 
   The full text of the letter appears below. 
   January 4, 2007 
   The Honorable Margaret Spellings 
   Secretary of Education 
   United States Department of Education 
   400 Maryland Avenue, SW 
   Washington, DC 20202 
   Dear Secretary Spellings: 
   We write today with regard to the Commonwealth of Virginia's request of a one-year extension for using an alternative assessment for testing Limited English Proficiency (LEP) students required by the No Child Left Behind Act. 
   As you know, Section 9401 of the No Child Left Behind Act (P.L. 107-110) states: "the Secretary [of Education] may waive any statutory or regulatory requirement of this Act for a State educational agency, local educational agency, Indian tribe, or school through a local educational agency that (1) receives funds under a program authorized by this Act; and (2) requests a waiver under subsection (b)." In light of Virginia's unique circumstances, we write today to indicate our strong support for you using your authority under this section to grant Virginia's request. 
   On June 28, 2006, the Virginia Department of Education received notice from the U.S. Department of Education that its current test would not meet the criteria necessary as an alternate assessment for LEP students. The academic school year started shortly thereafter. On December 11, 2006, representatives from the Virginia Board of Education and the State Superintendent of Public Instruction met with U.S. Department of Education officials to discuss a one-year extension for using an alternative assessment for testing LEP students. Now, in January 2007, half-way through the current school year, it is logistically impossible for Virginia to develop, test, and train personnel in a new assessment for use in April 2007. 
   Accordingly, should the U.S. Department of Education not grant an extension, it is likely that a large number of Virginia schools will fail to meet Adequate Yearly Progress (AYP) ratings in the coming year and enter sanctions - not because the schools are not successful, but simply because of realistic logistical problems in developing, preparing for, and administering a new test in the middle of the school year. In our view, such a result, which would be based on logistics rather than the true measure of a student's knowledge, would certainly be contrary to the important goals of No Child Left Behind. 
   Our hope is that this extension is granted and that Virginia will continue to work with you to develop a new test for the 2007-2008 school year. Because of the timeliness of this issue, we request a written response as soon as possible. 
   Thank you for your assistance with this matter. We look forward to hearing from you. 
   John W. Warner 
   Jim Webb 
   Jo Ann Davis 
   Thelma Drake 
   Robert C. Scott 
   J. Randy Forbes 
   Virgil H. Goode Jr. 
   Robert W. Goodlatte 
   Eric Cantor 
   James P. Moran 
   Rick Boucher 
   Frank R. Wolf 
   Thomas M. Davis III.
 
 