SEN. WARNER ISSUE STATEMENT ON PASSING OF OLIVER WHITE HILL
  Today, I join with many others across our Commonwealth and the nation in mourning the death of civil rights attorney Oliver White Hill, Sr. On April 18, 2007, on the occasion of Mr. Hill's one-hundredth birthday, Sen. Webb and I spoke of Mr. Hill's great achievements on the floor of the United States Senate. My remarks were as follows.  
   "Mr. President, I rise today to join my colleague from Virginia, Senator Webb, in recognition of the one-hundredth birthday of an exceptional American, Oliver White Hill. I am proud to say that this champion of civil rights is a fellow Virginian who I have come to know personally over these many years. It is my privilege today to join Senator Webb in honor of this great man. 
   "After earning his law degree from Howard University School of Law - where, I might add, he finished as the salutatorian to none other than future Supreme Court Justice Thurgood Marshall - Oliver White Hill began his law practice in Roanoke, Virginia, moving soon thereafter to Richmond to serve the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, or NAACP, as the leader of its legal team in our Commonwealth. In his work with the NAACP from 1940 to 1961, Mr. Hill contributed tremendously to the progression of civil rights in our country, particularly in his role as a principal attorney on the landmark case of Brown v. Board of Education in 1954. 
   "Working diligently for the NAACP, Mr. Hill was legal counsel for many historic cases regarding equal opportunity in education, employment, housing, transportation, and justice. 
   "As a person who has spent many years in public service, I have a special appreciation for the dignity with which Mr. Hill answered the call to duty throughout his career, first as a veteran of World War II, as the first African American elected to the Richmond City Council since the Reconstruction era, and later as a federal appointee to the Federal Housing Administration and the Department of Housing and Urban Development. 
   "It is my honor today to stand before the Senate in appreciation for the efforts of Mr. Hill on behalf of his country and his Commonwealth. Certainly, the legacy of his strong career in support of equal rights will continue to be felt through the determination of the many Americans mentored or inspired by Oliver White Hill, and I join with Senator Webb in gratitude for his dedication and longevity."
 
 