SEN. WARNER ANNOUNCES HOMELAND SECURITY GRANT INFORMATION OR VIRGINIA
  Today, Sen. John W. Warner, R-Va., announced that the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) has disclosed the guidelines for its 2006 Infrastructure Grant Program, including actual and eligible funding levels for Virginia communities.  
   While DHS has awarded some funds under this program, other regions and entities have been identified as eligible to apply for competitive awards based upon risk. In all, $399 million will be awarded throughout the program nationally. 
   Following are highlights of Virginia funding and eligibility levels under this program: 
   Transit Security Grant Program 
   The Washington, DC National Capital Region will receive $13 million for transit security for use on the Washington, DC Metro system, the Maryland Transit Administration, and Virginia Railway Express. In addition, the Washington area will receive $1.3 million for use on bus systems including the City of Alexandria's Alexandria Transit Company, the Potomac Rappahannock Transportation Commission, and the Fairfax Connector Bus System. 
   Buffer Zone Protection Program (BZPP) 
   Virginia will receive $945,000 for the Department of Homeland Security infrastructure protection program to protect and prevent critical infrastructure from acts of terror. THE BZPP will award $48 million nationwide to secure chemical facilities, nuclear and electric power plants, dams, stadiums, arenas, and other high-risk areas. 
   Trucking Security Program (TSP)
   The Transportation Security Operations Center (TSOC) in Herndon, Virginia will serve as the hub for the $4.8 million Highway Watch Program. The Highway Watch Program trains highway professionals to identify and report security and safety situations on the nation's roadways and is being deployed throughout the nation with the assistance of the American Trucking Associations, the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials, and the National School Bus Association. 
   Port Security Grant Program (PSGP)
   Newport News and Norfolk Harbor have been chosen as one of the eligible areas to apply for grants under the Port Security Grant Program. These Virginia Ports will be able to compete for a portion of the $168 million provided for Port Security Grants. 
   Intercity Passenger Rail Security Grant Program (IPRSGP)
   $7.2 million will be provided to continue security enhancements on Amtrak's Northeast Corridor and other high-risk corridors in Chicago and the West Coast. 
   In announcing the grants, Senator Warner said, "Protecting our homeland remains one of our highest national priorities, and I am pleased that these Virginia communities will receive much needed funds to help them keep our citizens safe."
 
 