SEN. WARNER ISSUES STATEMENT ON NAMING OF POST OFFICE FOR REP. DAVIS
  On Oct. 6, 2007, the people of Virginia's First Congressional District lost one of its most respected and admired leaders, a dedicated member of Congress and loyal friend, Representative Jo Ann Davis. 
   Today, I am proud to have Senator Jim Webb join me in introducing bill S. 2725 to honor our dear colleague. This legislation would designate the United States Post Office at 6892 Main Street in Gloucester, Va., as the Congresswoman Jo Ann S. Davis Post Office. Representative Robert Wittman has introduced companion legislation in the House of Representatives.
   Born in North Carolina, Jo Ann Davis attended Hampton Roads Business College in Virginia and later obtained her real estate license and real estate broker's license over the next several years. In 1990, she started her own company, Jo Ann Davis Realty, and followed this successful endeavor with a run for public office in 1997. Serving as a delegate in the Virginia General Assembly for four years, Jo Ann Davis became the first Republican woman to serve Virginia in the United States Congress after winning her election in 2000.
   Representative Davis was a relentless champion for the needs of the First District. It was my privilege to work with her on many matters, ranging from national defense to the environment, and in that regard, she worked hard to improve the health of the Chesapeake Bay. Also, I commend her diligent leadership in the removal of the James River Reserve Fleet from Newport News. From her support for the Rappahannock River Valley National Wildlife Refuge to her concern with the preservation of Dragon Run or providing funding for oyster restoration, she always put the quality of Virginia's environment above politics.
   With sincere passion and concern, Representative Davis worked to improve our nation's armed services and the lives of the men and women who bravely answer the call to duty. She provided strong representation for the communities in and surrounding the Naval Surface Warfare Center at Dahlgren and the Marine Corps base at Quantico, ensuring that these facilities continue to make important contributions to protecting the nation and to the economic foundations of their respective areas. Her initiative to increase the life-insurance benefit paid to survivors of military members and her advocacy on behalf of the rights and benefits of federal employees will continue to be appreciated in the years ahead.
   I always admired Representative Davis for her strong convictions and the tenacity that she brought to bear in acting on them. She fought a courageous struggle against cancer, and I will miss her insights and her friendship in our Virginia congressional delegation.
   I am pleased to offer this small token of recognition and gratitude for someone who has given so much to the Commonwealth and her country.
   I close with a personal note that we both shared interests in equestrian activities. There is an old English saying that "the outside of the horse is good for the inside of the man." As an avid, accomplished rider, she often quipped with me that the saying applies equally to a woman. She loved the noble horse.
   I join with my colleagues from the Commonwealth and from the entire United States Congress in expressing my deepest sympathies to her husband, her two sons and her extended family. They remain in our thoughts and prayers.
 
 