SENS. WARNER, WEBB LAUD SENATE'S INCREASED COMMITMENT TO NATION'S SERVICEMEMBERS, VETERANS
  Senators John Warner and Jim Webb called today's passage of the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act "a significant and necessary step toward fulfilling our commitment to the nation's troops and veterans." The Act would provide $109.2 billion in appropriations for military construction projects, BRAC and veterans health care - $4 billion more than the President's budget request. 
   The bill allocates millions in critical construction projects for Virginia's military installations - including defense agencies, the Virginia Army National Guard, and the U.S. Joint Forces Command Headquarters in Norfolk. 
   "This legislation provides essential resources to improve quality of life for our men and women in uniform, and their families, from better military housing to training facilities, as they perform their vital missions to protect our country," said Senator Warner. I am proud of Virginia's contribution to our national defense, and I thank Senator Webb for helping secure additional benefits for our Commonwealth's veterans, including greater access to VA health care and services for those returning home from tours overseas. Our nation owes these brave men and women nothing less than the provisions provided by this bill."  
   "I am pleased to see substantive infrastructure investments as well, such as funding for key transportation projects, hospitals, and other facilities that are so important to implement the BRAC process," continued Warner. 
   "On behalf of our men and women in uniform and their families, Senator Warner and I worked to ensure that these construction projects are adequately funded," said Webb, a Marine Corps veteran and member of the Senate Committee on Armed Services and the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs. "Properly maintaining and modernizing Virginia's military facilities and bases are as important to the livelihood of the Commonwealth as they are to our national security and welfare of our service members." 
   The bill would also provide a total of $87.5 billion for the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to begin to reduce the 600,000-claim backlog in the VA and provide for the long-term needs of veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan. The bill also funds critical programs to improve the treatment of military service members suffering traumatic brain injury (TBI) and post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Webb, a leading proponent of such programs, successfully added an amendment to the pending Wounded Warriors Act that would require the military to take steps to reduce the stigma associated with these injuries through strengthened educational-awareness training programs. 
   "On my first day in office, I promised to work on behalf of those who have served our country in a time of war. Today, we made good on that commitment," said Webb. 
   "As we expand health-care programs for our nation's veterans, it is my hope that the Senate will do the same for educational benefits. I will continue to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to see that a proper GI bill is available to those who served and have sacrificed so much since 9/11," continued Webb. 
   Notable Virginia Military Construction/ BRAC provisions appropriated in the bill: 
   NORTHERN VIRGINIA/ FREDERICKSBURG 
   Ft. Belvoir 
   Defense Access Road Phase 3 $13 million 
   Entrance Gate Security Enhancement $5 million 
   Construct Headquarters Command Cntr $25.1 million 
   Construct National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency Building $428.9 million 
   TRICARE Management, Hospital 1st Increment $219.4 million 
   Washington Headquarters Office Complex $321.5 million 
   Infrastructure Support Inc 1 $20 million 
   Ft. Myer 
   Barracks $12.4 million 
   Unit Operations Facilities $8.4 million 
   Quantico 
   Student quarters building $26.7 million 
   Bachelor Enlisted Quarters upgrades $18.8 million 
   Warfare Program Support Center $5 million 
   Navy Reserve Center Additions $2.4 million 
   Investigative Agency Facilities $143 million 
   Dahlgren Research, Development and Acquisition - Test and Evaluation Consolidated Facility $28.9 million 
   HAMPTON ROADS 
   Norfolk 
   Joint Forces Command, Headquarters $14.2 million 
   MH-60S Hangar and Field $53.85 million 
   E2/C2 Aircrew Training Facility $11.51 million 
   Environmental Preventive Medicine Unit 2 Replacement $6.5 million 
   Norfolk Naval Shipyard Maintenance Engineering 
   Facility Modification $19.4 million 
   Norfolk Naval Shipyard Engineering Management 
   Facility Conversion $9.5 million 
   Chesapeake 
   Mobile User Objective System Installation $8.5 million 
   Dam Neck 
   Special Operations Forces (SOF) Operations Facility $47.25 million 
   Special Operations Forces (SOF) Operational Training Facility $14 million 
   Little Creek 
   New Special Operations Forces HQ $51 million 
   SEAL Team Ops and Supt. Facility $34 million 
   Special Boat Team Ops Facility $14 million 
   Fort Eustis 
   Barracks $32 million 
   Unit Ops Facility $43 million 
   Barracks $6.9 million 
   Unit Ops Facility $9.8 million 
   RICHMOND/ PETERSBURG 
   Ft. Lee 
   Combat Service Support School, Ph 1 $212 million 
   Combat Service Support School, Ph 2 $173 million 
   Joint Center, Consolidated Transportation $13.4 million 
   Facility for Consolidation $23.4 million 
   Ft. Pickett 
   Combat Pistol Qualification Course $1 million 
   Regional Training Institute Phase 1 $25.2 million 
   CENTRAL VIRGINIA 
   Rivanna Station, Charlottesville 
   Joint Use Intelligence Facility - Phase 1 $41 million 
   WINCHESTER 
   The Act appropriates $3.1 million in new funding, separate from the Administration's request, for construction of a new Virginia Army National Guard field maintenance shop (FMS) in Winchester. The new FMS will replace the existing facility to provide the maintenance space required to sustain and repair the vehicles and equipment of the Virginia Army National Guard's assigned units and other units in northwest Virginia. The new facility will be located adjacent to the new Winchester Readiness Center, which has already been funded, with a construction contract to be awarded by September 30, 2007. 
   Notable national Veterans Administration (VA) provisions in the bill include: 
   Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA). The bill would provide $44.642 billion for the VBA, including $41.236 billion for compensation and pensions; $3.3 billion for readjustment benefits; and $41.25 million for veterans insurance and indemnities. 
   Veterans Health Administration (VHA). The bill would provide $37.2 billion for the VHA, which is $2.6 billion more than the President's request and $4.5 billion more than Fiscal Year 2007 funding levels (excluding supplemental funding). This allocation includes funding for medical services, medical administration, medical facilities, medical and prosthetic research and the medical care collection fund. 
   National Cemetery Administration. The bill would provide $217.7 million for the National Cemetery Administration, which is $50.9 million above the requested amount and $56.96 million above Fiscal Year 2007 levels. 
   Departmental Administration. The bill would provide $5.427 billion for Departmental Administration, including operating expenses, Inspector General oversight of VA programs and operations, construction projects, and information and technological systems. $1.612 billion is allocated for general operating expenses - $130.5 million above Fiscal Year 2007 levels and $140.2 million above the President's request - to support efforts to improve the claims process.
 
 