SEN. WARNER PRAISES PASSAGE OF LEGISLATION TO PROVIDE FEDERAL TAX RELIEF TO RECIPIENTS OF HOKIE SPIRIT FUND
  U.S. Senators John Warner (R-VA) and Jim Webb (D-VA) applauded the Senate passage of legislation to exempt payments made from the "Hokie Spirit Memorial Fund" to victims of the Virginia Tech tragedy and their family members from federal income taxes. The legislation, H.R. 4118, was passed Dec. 6 by unanimous consent in the Senate and by a voice vote in the House of Representatives on Tuesday.  
   In October, Virginia Tech distributed $7 million in donations, collected through the "Hokie Spirit Memorial Fund" (HSMF), to the families of the 32 deceased victims and 47 injured students. The legislation eases the tax burden placed on Virginia Tech victims and their families that would result from these donations.
   "It is my hope that enactment of this legislation will provide some measure of assistance to those who lost loved ones and who suffered wounds as a consequence of the horrific shootings that took place on April 16, 2007, at Virginia Tech," said Warner. "In the aftermath of that tragic day, more than 20,000 generous Americans demonstrated support for the victims with financial donations totaling some $8.5 million. It is without question that this money should be free from federal income taxation."
   "We have seen great generosity on display following the Virginia Tech tragedy that demonstrated our nation's great ability to come together in times of crisis," said Webb. "Exempting the donations provided to the Virginia Tech families from taxation is consistent with historic practices, and the fair and appropriate thing to do. I'm pleased that the Virginia delegation was successful in passing this measure to help support the victims and their families as they continue to heal."
   The measure was introduced in the House of Representatives by Congressman Rick Boucher (VA-09) and was co-sponsored by Virginia Representatives Bob Goodlatte (VA-06), Eric Cantor (VA-07), Bobby Scott (VA-03) and Thelma Drake (VA-02).
 
 