SEN. WARNER PAYS TRIBUTE TO FORMER PRESIDENT REAGAN ON SENATE FLOOR
  Mr. WARNER. Mr. President, I join with my colleagues in paying profound respects to our late President Ronald Reagan, and I do so with a deep, deep sense of humility. 
   It is interesting, I walked into my reception room just the other day. No matter how long one is around here, I think you sort of have to go back and refresh your recollection as to what you put up in your reception room, and I found six different photographs of myself with the good fortune to be in the presence of our former great President.  
   I think back over my 26 years in the Senate, having had the privilege of working with all the Presidents in that period of time and, prior thereto, those Presidents when I was in the Department of Defense. Again, I say with a deep sense of respect and humility, I believe it is clear in my mind that I had the greatest opportunity to work with President Reagan, and probably had more opportunities to be with him in a professional capacity than any other President. 
   I was ranking for a period of time on the Armed Services Committee and in every way supported him in his remarkable vision to build and restore the Armed Forces of the United States, which buildup, in my judgment, was a major contributor, if not the major contributor, to the eventual demise of the Soviet Union. 
   There are several pictures of when he visited my home, which was a farm in Virginia, a farm in an area where I grew up in the summers as a very young man. He loved coming down to the farm. My farm was adjacent to the home of former President Kennedy, and the owner at that time was Bill Clements, who was a former Deputy Secretary of Defense. I served under him as Secretary of the Navy. He and I were very close friends. I introduced him to that countryside, and he bought the Kennedy home, which is a very small, modest home, reconstructed, so to speak, and enlarged by President Kennedy and Jacqueline Kennedy, his lovely, dear wife. 
   President Ronald Reagan and Bill Clements set it up so he could come down there and spend some quiet downtime. And he loved to ride horses. In those days, I had a pretty good collection of horses, and I was happy to share them with him on occasion. He rode around on my farm. I certainly enjoyed being with him on several occasions. I have one of the pictures of the two of us riding together. 
   I mention that because in that informal setting when there was just the two of us riding horses - I remember one time Mrs. Reagan was with us - this particular time I remember very well. We rode high up on the hill on the back of the farm. The hill has a vista down into the valley of Virginia. We checked the horses and began to talk about his great admiration for Stonewall Jackson and the various campaigns Jackson had up and down that valley during the Civil War. 
   I was so impressed with his remarkable knowledge of the facts of that period of history, and in later years, in other discussions with him, again he would frequently make reference to the history of the United States. His knowledge was really second to none. He had a magnificent command of American history. 
   But on this particular day, he reflected on a little self-deprecating humor, which he was very good at. He told me when Pearl Harbor occurred, he was a lieutenant in the Army Reserve Cavalry, again because he loved horses, he loved to ride. He promptly went down, Pearl Harbor Day or the day after, whatever the case may be, and said: I want to be activated. And sure enough, he was eventually activated. He wanted to take, as we say in the horse world, the bit in his teeth and charge -"Send me right away out to the front." 
   I remember he gestured with his hand. But, no, they sent him to an old cavalry post, which was down in one of the Indian territories, and he laughed and joked and said: When we put those posts out there, the primary thing was to secure the settlers and to hopefully strike a peaceful balance with the Indians and make life such that those territories could be developed. 
   But he said: I did a little homework - as he always did - before I went to this cavalry post and studied who the commanding officer and the other officers were. 
   Well, in those days, the custom in the military, particularly the Army, was that when a soldier reported, perhaps with his wife, whatever the case may be, the commanding officer would have them over to pay their respects, to get to know each other as soon as they arrived on the post. In the old days with the covered wagons, it was a long journey. By the time they reached their destination, they were pretty well exhausted-food and otherwise. So this was a chance to introduce them. 
   Reagan described the evening with great humor. He said: I walked in and there was the little colonel. He was a rather short fellow. He was all dressed in his uniform, with his riding boots, his Sam Browne belt. I was there in my lieutenant's uniform. He greeted me very warmly. He looked at me. 
   And President Reagan had a remarkable way of cocking his head. His body language was extraordinary. His walk, his mannerism, it was a great part of his character that I admired, how he conveyed so much feeling with just the way he would use his hands and his head, his stride. It emulated such tremendous confidence he had in himself. 
   But anyway, the colonel said, "Now, Reagan, where have I seen you? Do I know you?"
   Lieutenant Reagan said, "No, sir, we have never met."
   The colonel failed to guess. He circled back again and said, "Look here, young man, I know somehow I have seen you. Let's figure out where that was. What do you do?"
   And Lieutenant Reagan said, "Well, sir, I am involved in making movies." 
   Suddenly this colonel became silent. Then he said: That is where I have seen you. You were in that movie called "Brother Rat," which was about the Virginia Military Institute, and that movie didn't exactly, in my judgment, properly characterize the magnificence of that institute. As a matter of fact, I think it reflected dishonor upon that institute. And I remember you were in that movie. 
   Lieutenant, your duty on this post is over. I will transfer you. 
   In due course the President said he was transferred off the post, but I mention that because those of us who had the opportunity to be with him, particularly in informal settings, remember so well the magnificence of this man, the lessons he taught each of us. 
   Again, going back to those days in the buildup of the Soviet Union, he was very conscious of the fact that the Soviet Union was on pretty shaky financial status at that stage and that the Cold War posed a threat to the United States - intercontinental missiles, the threat to the standard forces of NATO, the Warsaw Pact nations, all of which are now, save one, members of NATO. 
   Those of us who worked in the Senate - I remember John Stennis and Barry Goldwater, Scoop Jackson, John Tower, to name but a few - formed a group to work with the President in a bipartisan way on trying to strengthen America such that we could send a strong signal to the world, particularly the Soviet Union, that we mean business. Don't ever entertain the idea of striking out against the free world, be it the United States or our NATO allies. 
   And the rest is history: "Tear down that wall, Mr. Gorbachev." And that wall did come down. Those were extraordinary days I was able to share with him, and I say that with the deepest sense of humility. But I don't want to prolong my remarks. 
   I do want to tell one other chapter. Just a few days ago, I was a part of a delegation that went over to the Normandy 60th anniversary. Senator Akaka was with me and the distinguished Senator from New Jersey and his lovely new bride were with me. So there were three of us who had some experience in World War II, of the six here in the Senate. We spent a wonderful day at the ceremonies. But the next day we took time to go out to Pointe du Hoc. It was fascinating. 
   There on June 6, 2004, I had been on that same spot of land 20 years before with Ronald Reagan. I remember the delegation. Strom Thurmond led it. Three of us went with him. Of course, Senator Thurmond had made a landing on the beaches on D-day. Other Senators, the Senator from Nevada, and Howard Cannon had likewise participated in the D-Day landings. Of course, I was at that time the youngster, 17 years old, in that group back in the United States getting prepared to take our training and become replacements someday. That is all history. There I stood on that ground, and he had passed away within that 24-hour period. 
   So I thought today I would read some of the remarks he made...It starts midway in the speech and lays out the history of the brave men who participated in D-day landings, and in particular the Rangers. 
   "Behind me is a memorial that symbolizes the Ranger daggers that were first thrust into the top of these cliffs. And before me are the men who put them there. 
   "These are the boys of Pointe du Hoc. These are the men who took the cliffs. These are the champions who helped free a continent. These are the heroes who helped end a war. 
   "Gentlemen, I look at you and I think of the words of Stephen Spender's poem. You are men who in your 'lives fought for life ..... and left a vivid air signed with your honor.'
   "Forty summers have passed since the battle that you fought here. You were young the day you took these cliffs; some of you were hardly more than boys, with the deepest joys of life before you. Yet you risked everything here. Why? Why did you do it? What compelled you to put aside the instinct for self-preservation and risk your lives to take these cliffs? What inspired all the men of the armies that met here? We look at you, and somehow we know the answer. It was faith and belief; it was loyalty and love. 
   "The men of Normandy had faith that they were doing what was right, faith that they fought for all humanity, faith that a just God would grant them mercy on this beachhead or on the next. It was the deep knowledge-and pray God we have not lost it-that there is a profound moral difference between the use of force for liberation and the use of force for conquest. You were there to liberate, not to conquer, and so you and those others did not doubt your cause. And you were right not to doubt.
   "You all knew that some things are worth dying for. One's country is worth dying for, and democracy is worth dying for, because it's the most deeply honorable form of government ever devised by man. All of you loved liberty. All of you were willing to fight tyranny, and you knew the people of your countries were behind you."
   The Presiding Officer [Senator Hagel], with his distinguished military service, understands, as do I, those words. The vision that he had not only for America but the free world, the strength of his convictions, the strength of his actions-it reestablished the strength of the Armed Forces which today have carried on, since that speech, with missions in the Balkans, Afghanistan, Iraq, and other areas of the world. 
   It takes time to restructure and build up a military. I find this President is doing just that, President Bush. I am happy and privileged to be a part of the team that is working in the Senate to achieve that. As a matter of fact, the bill for the Armed Forces in 2005 is the current business before the Senate. 
   Before I leave the speech, I was privileged, because of Senator Thurmond and the other Senators with me, we were not more than 15, 20 yards from the President when he gave the speech, right on this little spit of land that I visited 2 days ago. 
   And, suddenly, you saw the Secret Service men sort of break and go off and quickly perform the duties they have to protect the President. There was this figure which came up the cliff unexpectedly, unannounced, because there had been a reenactment with men of the Armed Forces currently on duty to scale the cliffs for all to see. So that part was over. Yet suddenly there appeared another individual who had scaled the cliffs and the Secret Service tackled him. I remember the President, always composed, stood there and looked at this scene. Suddenly, an aide went over and whispered in his ear and the President went over and grasped this man and gave him a hug. He was one of the original rangers who scaled that cliff. He wanted to show the President and the world that he was still able to do it. He had bits and pieces of his own uniform on. 
   Last, what are the ways in which we can honor this great President? Our hearts are so filled with gratitude and a sense of deep remorse at his loss. But it was his wisdom and foresight that strengthened America's military, and I think that requires some special recognition. I don't have all the answers now. I will be happy to work with others. 
   I am not trying to be the sole author of anything, but some thought has been given to the Department of Defense - and I went back last night and did a little research, and this morning I called the former Secretary of Defense, Melvin Laird, a very dear and valued friend, under whom I served as Secretary of the Navy, and we reminisced about our days and some of the initiatives he took. He mentioned one specifically. There was some thought about naming the Department of Defense building for President Eisenhower. After some very considerable thought, the decision was made not to do that. One of the main reasons - and I remember this very well - is that that building stands as a symbol of the bipartisanship that must be present as we work with the men and women in the Armed Forces. I strive to achieve that, as does the Presiding Officer and many others. 
   I am proud of the committee on which I have served - Armed Services - for 26 years, under a series of chairmen and ranking members. We have always tried to put partisanship aside and we have been successful. But it is important that the building be viewed as bipartisan. 
   Therefore, I remember Secretary Laird saying the naming of the building was not, in his judgment, what we should do. He confirmed that this morning, and I shared that feeling. He said he conceived the idea of naming a corridor for General Eisenhower. There is a technical thing there. The corridor is named after him as a general of the Armed Forces, a five-star general. His picture in uniform and many other pieces of memorabilia are along the corridor by the office of the Secretary of Defense. Previous Secretaries of Defense have honored the Commanders - in - Chief, the Presidents. So there is a corridor set aside for the Commanders - in - Chief, with portraits of every President since George Washington. Five living Presidents are there. You have Ford, Carter, George Herbert Walker Bush, President Clinton, and our current President Bush. All of their portraits are there. The way the Department of Defense has handled this in the past is to treat with equality the Presidents and their portraits, the recognition being bipartisan in nature in that building.
   We will have to put our minds together to see how best to do it. There is no question that Ronald Reagan gave a tremendous impetus to the concept of defending this Nation against missiles - missiles fired in anger or accidentally. Those things happen. He had the "Star Wars" concept. I was on the committee and we looked at this program. We began to do the initial work in the Congress to give support to the President's program. But eventually, from the standpoint of technology and costs, we looked at different ways to achieve our defense against missiles. It started way back under President Reagan when we put emphasis on this situation. Some of the thinking preceded President Reagan on how to defend this country against missiles. Today, we don't have a thing to interdict an intercontinental ballistic missile that would be fired in the direction of our 50 States. That is a separate matter. 
   Therefore, I think we have to give a lot of careful thought and be ever mindful of how we recognize our commanders, with five still living, in terms of their contributions to the defense of this country. We will come up with an idea. I hope we can, in some way, appropriately recognize this great President for his extraordinary accomplishments in strengthening America. 
   I conclude my remarks with the deepest sense of humility and gratitude toward the recollection of modest friendship, and the teachings I received from this great President. 
   I yield the floor.
 
 