SENS. WARNER, WEBB, REPS. BOUCHER, GOODLATTE INTRODUCE LEGISLATION TO PROVIDE FEDERAL TAX RELIEF TO VA TECH MEMORIAL FUND RECIPIENTS
  U.S. Senators John Warner and Jim Webb joined with U.S. Representatives Rick Boucher and Bob Goodlatte in introducing legislation to exempt payments made from the Hokie Spirit Memorial Fund to victims of the Virginia Tech tragedy, and their family members, from federal income taxes.  
   In the days immediately after the tragedy of April 16, 2007, there was a spontaneous outpouring of support across the nation for the Virginia Tech community, including substantial financial contributions. The university established the Hokie Spirit Memorial Fund (HSMF) as the vehicle to accept these donations. Last month, Virginia Tech distributed nearly $7 million from the fund to the families of the 32 deceased victims and 47 injured students. It is the families' and the university's desire that these funds be exempted from federal taxation, which can only be accomplished through special legislation adopted by the U.S. Congress. 
   "While no amount of money can truly compensate for the loss of life or limb, these payments provide both the families of the deceased and the injured survivors with some financial resources to help in some modest way," said Warner. "In my view, not only does precedent indicate that these types of payments should be free of federal income tax, common sense concurs." 
   "The Hokie Spirit Memorial Fund was established through the generous contributions of thousands of individuals who desired to assist the victims of this tragedy during their time of greatest need. Now that the funds have been dispersed, our legislation takes the entirely appropriate step of exempting these payments from federal income taxation," said Boucher. 
   "While Virginia Tech has acted graciously to help the victim's families, there is a new problem the families are facing," said Goodlatte. "It has become apparent that the funds these families received will become significantly reduced because of federal taxes. Funds some families desperately need to pay medical bills, funeral costs, and to simply rebuild their lives. The last thing these families need to worry about is an additional tax burden." 
   "We have seen great generosity on display following the Virginia Tech tragedy. Exempting the donations provided to the Virginia Tech families from taxation is consistent with historic practices, and the fair and appropriate thing to do," said Senator Jim Webb. 
   "On behalf of the entire Virginia Tech family, I want to express our deepest appreciation to Congressmen Boucher, Goodlatte, Cantor, Scott, and Drake, and Senators Warner and Webb for their leadership in seeking to exempt these funds, so generously donated in the wake of tragedy, from taxation," said Dr. Charles Steger, President of Virginia Tech. 
   "The families of those we lost and the survivors all have experienced extraordinary loss and emotional trauma. They have many needs, and in that light this action is most appropriate. Therefore, we are touched that Virginia 's Congressional Delegation has taken the lead in exempting these distributions from taxation," Steger concluded. 
   U.S. Representatives Bobby Scott (VA-03), Eric Cantor (VA-07), and Thelma Drake (VA-02) are also original co-sponsors of the legislation.
 
 