 Washington, D.C. â U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) sent the following letter to EPA administrator Stephen Johnson regarding the federal agencyâs draft proposed rule changes on human testing.    
August 10, 2005    
The Honorable Stephen L. Johnson  Administrator  Environmental Protection Agency  1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W.  Washington, D.C. 20460-0001    
Dear Administrator Johnson:    
I recently received a copy of the proposed rule on human testing with pesticides forwarded by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for review.  I am writing to express my strong objections to this draft proposal based on its failure to incorporate recent Congressional direction on this subject and to urge you to abandon its flawed approach prior to proposing the rule. This proposal fails to adequately ensure that people, including the most vulnerable among us, are protected from unethical industry tests in which human subjects swallow, inhale, are sprayed with, or are otherwise exposed to toxic pesticides.    
The U.S. Congress passed legislation rejecting EPAâs permissive approach to human pesticide testing in the Interior-Environment Appropriations bill (P.L. 109-54).  Unfortunately, EPAâs proposal fails to specifically incorporate the required prohibitions on testing on pregnant women, infants and children. These are the very provisions that generated the most intense Congressional criticism of EPAâs earlier draft rule and the necessary changes have still not been made.  The draft proposed rule even goes so far as to contemplate potentially dangerous pesticide testing on orphans and abused children. How outrageous to single out this group, who have the least ability to protect themselves, when they should be excluded from this kind of testing regime.    
I am also profoundly troubled by many other aspects of the proposal that violate the recently enacted law.  Among other problems, the proposal does not explicitly incorporate the principles of the Nuremberg Code and the National Academy of Sciences report, and creates loopholes for toxic pesticide testing on humans based on the original âintentâ? of the study.    
Perhaps it is not surprising that the draft proposed EPA rule is so clearly inconsistent with the intent of Congress since my staff learned in an EPA briefing that EPA transmitted this  proposal to the OMB on August 1, 2005âbefore the restrictions on human pesticide testing were signed into law by President Bush and without making a single change to the  proposed rule to specifically reflect the final language in the law.    
I am writing to you so that you are personally aware that EPA appears to be heading on a course at variance with the dictates of Congress, as well as the religious groups, public health and environmental groups that supported Congressional action. There is still an opportunity for EPA to change course.  However, if you go forward with this approach, I am also putting you on notice that I will use every means available to ensure that EPA complies with Congressional direction.    
I see this rule as an arrogant response by EPA to Congressional direction meant to protect the most vulnerable of our citizens from unethical testing. EPA must make significant changes to the draft proposed rule to ensure that the rule complies with the law.    
Sincerely,    
Barbara Boxer  United States Senator  