 Washington, D.C. B U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) has asked Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff to shed light on the decision-making process that led to San Diego and Sacramento being left out of the high risk category of areas eligible for Urban Areas Security Initiative grants.    
Senator Boxer sent the following letter to Secretary Chertoff: 
January 9, 2006    
The Honorable Michael Chertoff  Secretary  U.S. Department of Homeland Security  Washington, D.C. 20528 
Dear Secretary Chertoff:    
I have concerns about your Department창s recent announcement of areas eligible for 2006 Urban Areas Security Initiative (UASI) grants.  With two major California cities eligible only for 창sustainment funding,창? and the consolidation of existing UASI areas, it would be helpful to me if you could provide some insight into the selection of eligible cities and evaluation of proposals.    
The absence of San Diego and Sacramento from this year창s high-risk category have caused me to question how your Department has calculated the risks these cities face.  The San Diego area, featuring the nation's 7th-largest city adjacent to a heavily-trafficked international border, a busy port, tourist attractions, and a major military installation, was not judged to fall into the high-risk category.  Neither was the Sacramento area, despite being the state capitol.  Both of these areas were previously identified as facing enough risk to receive funding.    
As you know, I support risk-based distribution of homeland security funds, and I was reassured to see the Anaheim/Santa Ana area, the Bay area, and the Los Angeles/Long Beach area on the list.  However, I would appreciate it if you could provide me with the data and calculations that led to your decisions on the San Diego and Sacramento areas.    
Additionally, I would like to know whether the grant award process will make accommodations for the application challenges faced by areas that were significantly expanded in geographic scope, such as the Anaheim/Santa Ana area, the Bay area, and the Los Angeles/Long Beach area.  I would like to ensure that potential awards to these newly expanded areas will reflect their increased need and take into consideration the difficulty of developing proposals in a short time-frame with a new governance structure or new working relationships.    
Thank you for your consideration.    
Sincerely,    
Barbara Boxer  United States Senator    