 Washington, D.C. â U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) today sent the following letter to President Bush: 
April 11, 2006   The Honorable George W. Bush    President of the United States    1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW    Washington, DC 20500  Dear Mr. President:  I am writing to request that you apologize to the American people for your role in declassifying information for political reasons and authorizing its dissemination.  According to a court document filed by Special Counsel Patrick Fitzgerald, I. Lewis Scooter Libby testified that you personally approved the leaking of selected portions of the National Intelligence Estimate (NIE). The purpose of disclosing this information was to discredit Ambassador Joe Wilson, who in July of 2003 had publicly questioned the Administrations misuse of intelligence to justify the war in Iraq--a war that has now resulted in more than 2,300 American deaths and more than 17,000 wounded.  Yesterday, you justified your actions by saying, I wanted people to see the truth. Yet the information that you declassified about Iraq seeking uranium was not the truth. In fact, it had already been thoroughly debunked. The United Nations Inspectors had already determined it wasnt true. The White House received a report from the National Intelligence Council in January 2003 saying that it wasnt true.   Again, you approved the leaking of classified information to serve your own political purposes and to discredit Ambassador Wilson. This is not only unacceptable, but also completely at odds with your frequent condemnations of leaks over the past three years:  In September 2003, you said, leaks of classified information are a bad thing...I've spoken out consistently against them and I want to know who the leakers are. In October 2003, you said, This is a town of -- where a lot of people leak. And I've constantly expressed my displeasure with leaks, particularly leaks of classified information. In December 2005, you said, But its a shameful act by somebody who has got secrets of the United States government and feels like they need to disclose them publicly.  In March 2006, you said, I'd like to know who leaked, and if anybody has got any information inside our government or outside our government who leaked, you ought to take it to the Justice Department so we can find out the leaker.  Who is paying the price for this misuse of Presidential power? Our young men and women in uniform, our taxpayers, and all Americans who are losing faith in our government.  Again, I ask that you apologize to the American people for your actions and the actions of your Administration.   Barbara Boxer     United States Senator    