 Washington, D.C. â U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) today wrote to the Army Surgeon General expressing deep concern over a GAO report that found that nearly four out of five service members who were found to be at risk for Post Traumatic Stress Disorder after completing their post-deployment health assessment form were never referred for further mental health evaluations.    
Following is Senator Boxerâs letter to the Army Surgeon General: 
 May 11, 2006 Lieutenant General Kevin Kiley, M.D.      Surgeon General, United States Army      Commander, U.S. Army Medical Command      Office of the Surgeon General, Suite 672      5109 Leesburg Pike      Falls Church, VA 22041 
Dear General Kiley:  Congratulations on your appointment to the newly created Defense Task Force on Mental Health. While I wish that I could dedicate more of this letter to expressing my deep appreciation that the Task Force is moving forward, I am afraid that we do not have any time to waste on pleasantries.  I am deeply concerned by the Government Accountability Office (GAO) report released today detailing the stunning failures of the Department of Defenses post-deployment health assessment program. Todays report finds that nearly four out of five service members who were found to be at risk for Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) after completing their post-deployment health assessment form were never referred for further mental health evaluations. This is inexcusable.   When the mental health screening program was initiated in early 2005, Pentagon officials touted it as a mechanism for ensuring that troops would get the help they need. Dr. William Winkenwerder, the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs, said We want you to come in and we're going to talk to you and we're going to help you and we're going to support you through this. Tragically, the GAO report illustrates the emptiness of this promise.  According to GAO, of the 9,145 service members who were found to be at risk for PTSD, only 22 percent were referred to clinicians for further evaluation. This means that approximately 7,116 at-risk service members returned to their homes, families, and communities untreated for a potentially life-threatening mental health condition. As you know, PTSD, if left untreated, has the potential to intensify over time. Victims suffer from nightmares, anxiety, depression, and sometimes, turn to suicide. In light of the figures released by GAO, it is clear that we have an emergency on our hands.   Thus, I ask you -- the highest ranking member of the Defense Task Force on Mental Health -- to take immediate steps to rectify this deplorable lack of care for our men and women in uniform and to notify me as soon as possible for your plans in this regard. I also ask that you inform me if additional resources are needed for these efforts.  I look forward to personally discussing this matter with you in the very near future.    Sincerely,   Barbara Boxer      United States Senator    