 Washington, D.C. â U.S. Senators David Vitter (R-LA) and Barbara Boxer (D-CA) introduced bipartisan legislation to improve the safety of Americaâs railroads by shutting down unsafe railroad grade crossings.    
Vitter said, "Train-car collisions have become all too common here in Louisiana. This year already weâve had 15 deaths because of these accidents.  This legislation will provide Louisiana and other states with resources to make safety improvements to existing crossings to make them safer for our residents and to close particularly dangerous crossings." 
Boxer said, "We can improve the safety of Americaâs railways by eliminating dangerous railroad crossings.  Last year, there were 154 accidents at railroad crossings in California.  This legislation will help to prevent these accidents, as well as terrible tragedies like the one in Glendale, California, earlier this year." 
The Vitter-Boxer Railroad Safety Improvement Act directs the Secretary of Transportation to submit a plan to Congress on how to best eradicate unsafe grade crossings.  The bill authorizes $178 million in federal grants to install automated warning systems at grade crossings.  Priority will be given to states with the most railway accidents per mile of railroad track, inadequate protective equipment and the highest volume of railway goods movement.    
The bill also authorizes $6.7 million over five years for Operation Lifesaver, a public safety program that educates people about the dangers of railroad crossings.    
According to the Federal Railroad Administration, "grade crossings are the site of the greatest number of collisions and industries" in the railroad industry.  In 2000, there were 3,502 incidents at grade crossings.    
Some progress has been made on this issue.  Earlier this year, Senator Boxer introduced the Rail Crossing Safety Act of 2005.  Part of that legislation â directing the Secretary of Transportation to make recommendations to improve grade crossings â was included in the highway reauthorization bill.  In addition, the highway bill includes more than $443 million in funding that states could use for the construction of grade separations, such as bridges and tunnels.  States could also use up to 2 percent of their overall federal highway funding for such projects.    
"While there has been good progress, more needs to be done," said Boxer.  