 Washington, D.C.  U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) today introduced legislation to protect nearly 115,000 acres of pristine public land within the Sequoia-Kings Canyon National Park as wilderness. Representatives Jim Costa (D-CA 20) and Devin Nunes (R-CA 21) introduced companion legislation in the House of Representatives.   Boxer said, This bipartisan effort will protect 115,000 acres of spectacular lands, including majestic mountains, canyons, caverns and sequoia groves in Sequoia-Kings Canyon National Park. This legislation will ensure that these beautiful areas will be sustained and preserved as part of Californias identity and rich, natural heritage.    Representative Nunes said, Wilderness designations have historically been highly contentious. I am pleased that we were able to work together to ensure that the concerns of my constituents were addressed prior to moving forward. This is the right way to govern and I believe this proposal will garner strong bipartisan support.   The Sequoia-Kings Canyon National Park Wilderness Act designates these acres as wilderness  the highest level of protection for public land in American law. The areas will remain open to the public for recreational activities such as camping, hiking, and horseback riding. The proposed wilderness area includes the Redwood Mountain Grove, the largest Giant Sequoia grove within the Park. It also includes Californias longest cave and the Old Hockett Trail, one of the first cross-Sierra routes in the southern Sierra Nevada range. The land is home to many wild animals, including the California Spotted Owl and the Golden Eagle.   Nearly 70,000 acres of this proposed wilderness area would be named after John Krebs, a former Fresno County Supervisor and U.S. Congressman who successfully fought to keep Mineral King Valley undeveloped by transferring the land into the National Park.   Boxer added, Naming part of this wilderness after former Congressman John Krebs is an overdue and fitting tribute to a great conservationist and legislator. John courageously led the fight to protect Mineral King Valley from development and deserves our gratitude for its pristine natural beauty today.   This legislation was developed in consultation with local communities, elected officials, recreation organizations, businesses, federal and state agencies and local property owners. ###   