 Washington, DC  U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA)  today praised Senate passage of the Defense Authorization Act, which included an  amendment she authored requiring the Department of Defense to report to Congress  on the ability of the National Guard to respond to domestic  emergencies. Senator Boxer said, This important amendment will help Congress get a more  accurate picture of the National Guards equipment shortages and needs so we can  ensure we are fully prepared to respond to domestic emergencies. We cannot  afford to wait for a catastrophic earthquake or major  flood we need to act  now.   In January 2007, the Government Accountability Office (GAO)  issued a report on Actions Needed to Identify National Guard Domestic Equipment  Requirements and Readiness. The report found that the Department of Defense  does not routinely measure or report to Congress on the ability of non-deployed  National Guard forces to respond to domestic missions.    The inclusion of  the Boxer amendment will implement two GAO recommendations to improve reporting  on National Guard readiness. First, it revises the requirement for the annual  National Guard and Reserve Equipment Report to include an assessment of the  extent to which the Guard possesses the equipment required to respond to  domestic emergencies, the effect of shortfalls of equipment, and strategies for  the National Guard to effectively respond to emergencies. It also requires that  quarterly personnel and unit readiness reports include an assessment of the  Guards ability to support civil authorities under the National Response  Plan. The Defense Authorization bill also includes a provision  authored by Boxer for more accurate reporting of employment discrimination  against members of the National Guard and Reserve. Current law requires that the Department of Labor (DoL)  report to Congress on the number of employment discrimination complaints  received from Guard and Reservists by the DoL, as well as the Department of  Justice and Office of Special Counsel. Boxers provision will implement a GAO  recommendation to require that the annual DoL report also include complaints  made to the Department of Defense. Senator Boxer said, We cannot tolerate employers discriminating against  members of our National Guard and our Reserves, many of whom have served  multiple tours of duty. They should not face additional hardship when they  return home to civilian life. This amendment will help ensure Congress has a  more accurate picture of how our Guard and Reserve members are being  treated.  ###  