 Members of the BRAC Commission:    
Good afternoon, and welcome to beautiful southern California.  I would like to begin by extending my sincere thanks to the BRAC Commission for holding this extremely important hearing.  I trust that the Commissioners will leave today with an even greater understanding of why it is so essential that California continue to play a robust role in our countryâs national defense.    
Simply put, a strong military presence in California is vital to our national security.  First and foremost, California has training assetsâland, sea, and airâthat cannot be replicated elsewhere.  Troops from all over the country come to California to take advantage of our Stateâs vast training grounds, many in preparation for deployment on combat and humanitarian missions around the globe.    
The topography of our deserts and our high mountain areas in the Sierra Nevada and White Mountains provide diverse training for the Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marines.  The size of our state also allows for thousands of acres of open space for unencroached ground, air and aquatic military training.  And dare I forget to mention Californiaâs weather.  Nowhere else can our military train year-round with so little threat of interference by inclement weather.      
California also has the workforce to fulfill Californiaâs military needs.  California has long provided a large percentage of our militaryâs manpower requirements: nearly 300,000 people are employed by the Department of Defense in California, and nearly 1 in 10 of all new military recruits is a California resident.  I am certain that in most of the places where our forces are deployed, it would be difficult not to find a Californian.    
Furthermore, Californians also play a key role in ensuring that our military remains the best-equipped and most technologically advanced in the world.  Many of the worldâs finest universities call California home:  we graduate more doctoral engineers than any other state, and many of these individuals go on to provide a lifetime of service to our nationâs defense industry.  And California is the hub of our nationâs growing technology industry.      
And finally, California is strategically located to address 21st century threats, especially as we begin to seek enhanced security in Asia and the Pacific Rim.  These assets are all unique to California and cannot be replicated elsewhere.    
Frankly, I question the appropriateness of any downsizing of our military infrastructure at this time.  Our country is at war, our military is stretched terribly thin, and we are having trouble meeting manpower and equipment needs.  In addition, there has been considerable discussion about increasing the size of our military to meet the threats of the 21st century.  I believe it would have been more pertinent to consider downsizing at a time when the force is less stressed.  Furthermore, our bases may well be necessary to deal with homeland security operations and/or natural disasters.    
I find it difficult to discern how the Pentagon will be able to orchestrate this round of base closures and realignments in a thorough and timely manner given the magnitude of challenges the Pentagon is currently facing.  We have not even completed the last round of base closures.  Today, 10 years after the last round of base closures, 5 former bases in California remain on the Environmental Protection Agencyâs Superfund list of the most heavily contaminated toxic waste sites in the nation.  These include: Marine Corps Air Station El Toro, Fort Ord, Mather Air Force Base, Moffett Naval Air Station, and McClellan Air Force Base.  This is simply unacceptable.    
I respectfully ask that you, the BRAC Commissioners, keep these factors in mind when you shape your list of recommended closures for submission to the President.     
In closing, I would also like to commend the representatives of the many communities that have gathered here today to advocate on behalf of their respective bases, and I pledge to you my continued support in this difficult process.  I would also like to thank Governor Schwarzenegger, the entire California Congressional delegation, and the State delegation for their commitment to keeping California at the forefront of our nationâs defense.  