 Washington, D.C.창U.S. Senators Barbara Boxer (D-CA) and Joseph Lieberman (I-CT) today wrote to Secretary of Defense Robert Gates to urge him to fully support the work of the Defense Task Force on Mental Health and ensure that the Task Force's report is completed and delivered to Congress on time.    
Boxer is the author of the law establishing the Task Force.  Boxer and Lieberman are the authors of a law requiring that the Department of Defense issue minimum mental health standards for deployment to a combat zone.    
The letter to Secretary Gates follows:    March 15, 2007    
The Honorable Robert Gates  Secretary of Defense  Washington, DC 20301    
Dear Secretary Gates:    
We are writing today to urge you, in the strongest possible terms, to ensure that the Mental Health Task Force창established by Sec. 723 of the National Defense Authorization Act of 2006창remains a top priority for the Department of Defense.    
As you know, Lieutenant General Kevin Kiley, the Co-Chair of the Mental Health Task Force, has submitted his retirement papers to the United States Army, and we are concerned that his departure could delay the completion of the Task Force report. As such, we request that you provide the Task Force with the resources and support necessary to complete its critical mission and deliver its report on time to Congress.    
We have significant concerns about the mental health services our service members are receiving. We believe there is a need for improved pre- and post-deployment mental health screenings so that service members with severe mental illnesses, many of whom are prescribed psychotropic medicines, are not further harmed; for comprehensive mental health education at all levels and standardized services, including family support services, across military installations; and for concrete measures to eliminate the stigma associated with seeking mental health treatment. Those who serve in our armed forces should not feel discouraged from seeking care for any reason.    
We also believe that we must have a clear and accurate assessment of the quality and quantity of mental health care professionals available to provide assistance to our troops. Service members cannot be forced to wait for care because of a shortage of mental health providers. Tragedies have occurred because service members did not receive the care they needed. This must end.   The recent reports on the conditions at Walter Reed Army Medical Center, and the problems in our VA medical system, underscore the need for the Mental Health Task Force to provide clear recommendations that address these concerns.  In light of the extraordinary sacrifices of our brave men and women in uniform, we urge that this report include far-reaching and meaningful changes. We stand ready to work with you to ensure that you have the resources needed to implement the Task Force recommendations. In essence, the Mental Health Task Force provides an opportunity to change history창to truly take care of those who have dedicated a portion of their lives in service to our nation. It will also send a strong message to future generations of service members that they, and their families, will be duly taken care of.    
Thank you for your prompt consideration of this important request.    
Sincerely,    
Barbara Boxer  United States Senator    
Joseph Lieberman  United States Senator    