 Washington, DC - U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA), Chairman of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, today announced that the Senate-passed Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) authorizes $41.5 million for an ongoing comprehensive flood protection project in Petaluma. Boxer first secured a $32 million authorization for Petaluma flood control in the 2000 WRDA, but under that original authorization, the Army Corps ran out of money to complete the project. This authorization of $41.5 million includes the original authorization, additional costs incurred and inflation over the past seven years, and the approximately $2 million still needed by the Army Corps to finish this important flood control project. Boxer said, "I am so pleased that the Senate has agreed to help the Army Corps finish this critical flood control project, which will protect hundreds of homes and businesses in Petaluma.  Over the past few years, the estimated costs for the project have risen dramatically, and this authorization will help the Corps complete the project quickly." Petaluma has experienced many floods over the past decades, most recently being devastated by two floods in 2006. The project has been ongoing for years and has required significant resources to complete. The authorization included by Senator Boxer will allow the Army Corps to complete the project. Boxer said, "Last year, I visited the City of Petaluma and witnessed its citizens' frustrations with the delays and costs of this flood control project for myselfâthey have waited long enough to see this project completed, and this authorization will help see it done."  Under Boxer's proposal, approved today as part of WRDA, the project is authorized for a total of $41.5 million, including a federal contribution of $27 million and non-federal (local and state) contributions of $14.5 million.   WRDA authorizes flood control, navigation, environmental restoration, and other water projects across the country. The bill now goes to Conference with the House of Representatives, which passed its version of WRDA in April.  