 Washington, DC - U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA), Chairman of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, today announced that the Senate-passed Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) includes an authorization for $683 million, including $444 million in federal funding to improve, strengthen, and expedite Sacramento's flood control protection at Folsom Dam.    
"After years of uncertainty and delay, the Corps is on its way to strengthening and upgrading Folsom Dam and better ensure the safety of Sacramento and nearby communities."    
Sacramento is situated at the confluence of the American and Sacramento Rivers. This location창and the region's aging flood control infrastructure창make Sacramento extremely vulnerable to catastrophic flooding.    
Folsom Dam is a vital component of Sacramento's flood control infrastructure. However, significant upgrades창and significant resources창are needed to improve Sacramento's protection.    
Over the past two years, the Army Corps of Engineers and the Bureau of Reclamation developed the Joint Federal Project, a new proposal with improved engineering features to help control and slow water flow during major storms and provide Sacramento with more than 200 years of flood protection. As part of the plan, the project includes an auxiliary spillway to help manage excess water during major weather events. It can also be completed in considerably less time than previous engineering plans to upgrade up the Dam.    
Boxer said, "I am so pleased that the Senate has taken this step towards providing Sacramento with more adequate flood protection, and that this process will be expedited. However, this is only the beginning of my committee's efforts to improve Sacramento's flood protection, including enhancing protections along the Sacramento River. As Chairman of EPW, I will work to see that these needs are met."    
WRDA authorizes flood control, navigation, environmental restoration, and other water projects across the country. The bill now goes to Conference with the House of Representatives, which passed its version of WRDA in April.  