 Washington, DC â U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) today announced Senate approval of $350,000 in federal funds to help construct Dominican Universityâs Center for Science and Technology.    
âWhen it is finished, the Center for Science and Technology will serve as a state-of-the-art scientific research center for students and faculty,â? Boxer said.  âThese funds will help maintain the Bay Areaâs important role in biotechnology and stem cell research, and provide our future teachers with the science credentials they need.â? 
Funds to help construct Dominican Universityâs laboratory center were included in the Commerce, Justice, and Science (CJS) appropriations bill for fiscal year 2006.    
The Center for Science and Technology will provide students and faculty with adequate space and state-of-the-art equipment to conduct research in biomedicine, molecular biotechnology, marine sciences and environmental sciences.  The two-story building will span 35,000 square feet and house more than 30 science laboratories and classrooms.    
The university hopes the building, to be finished in 2007, will accommodate its growing science program and help produce future science and mathematics teachers, of which there is a shortage in California.  Dominican has 142 biology students this year, up from 32 students in 2001.  In addition, this year the university hired four scientists who specialize in stem cell and breast cancer research to help establish a biomedical research program.    
The only four-year college in Marin County, Dominican University educates the majority of teachers hired in the county.  California recently passed new technology standards as part of the state-issued teaching certificate, requiring the integration of technology studies into statewide curricula.    
The FY2006 CJS appropriations bill funds the Departments of Commerce and Justice, as well as the National Aeronautics and Space Administration and the National Science Foundation.  The legislation now goes to the President for his signature.     