 Washington, DC â U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) today announced Senate approval of $500,000 in federal funds to further develop educational materials, programming and exhibits offered jointly to the public by Griffith Observatory and NASAâs Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL).    
âThe amazing discoveries of our nationâs space exploration program can inspire, fascinate and inform,â? Boxer said.  âWith these funds, Griffith Observatory and NASAâs Jet Propulsion Laboratory â two institutions that have improved understanding of our universe â together can team up to create exciting educational programming for the residents of greater Los Angeles and visitors to enjoy.â? 
Funds to develop JPL-sponsored programming at Griffith Observatory were included in the final version of the Commerce, Justice and Science (CJS) appropriations bill for fiscal year 2006.    
Funds will enable officials to enhance exhibits on NASAâs planetary missions, expand educational programming for broader audiences, increase awareness of JPL projects and discoveries, and develop public outreach with underserved communities from the greater Los Angeles area and southern California.    
Closed for renovations since 2002, Griffith Observatory is expected to increase its annual attendance to three million visitors when it opens its doors in spring 2006.  The facility, a southern California landmark since 1935, is the most-visited observatory in the nation and is situated on the southern slope of Mount Hollywood.  Officials from the observatory and NASAâs Jet Propulsion Laboratory view this opening as an opportunity to inform the public of American accomplishments in space exploration.    
With 16 spacecraft currently operating across the solar system, the Jet Propulsion Laboratory is one of the nationâs premier space research facilities.  The laboratory created Americaâs first satellite, Explorer 1, and sent the first robotic craft to the Moon and out across the solar system, reconnoitering all of the planets except one.  Current projects include Mars rovers and comet-chasing space crafts that are collecting data and broadening the scientific understanding of the nature of the cosmos.    
The FY2006 CJS appropriation bill funds the Departments of Commerce and Justice, as well as the National Aeronautics and Space Administration and the National Science Foundation.  The legislation now goes to the President for his signature.     