 Washington, D.C. - U.S. Senators Barbara Boxer (D-CA), Frank Lautenberg (D-NJ), Ken Salazar (D-CO) and Chuck Schumer (D-NY) today introduced the School Safety Enhancements Act of 2007 (SSEA), legislation that would provide funding for schools through the Justice Department to improve school safety measures such as tiplines, surveillance equipment, and capital improvements to schools.  Congressman Steve Rothman (D-NJ) introduced companion legislation in the House.  
Boxer said, "Our children deserve to go to schools where they can learn and grow without fear of violence, and where their parents can have peace of mind that they are safe.  This legislation will help provide our schools and our law enforcement communities with the tools and resources they need to create safe learning environments for our children." 
"Students can't learn if they're worried about their safetyâand our nation's schools and communities need more resources to protect them," said Lautenberg. "If we're serious about giving our young people a chance to build their future with a strong education, then we've got to get serious about funding school safety programs."  
"My state of Colorado experienced two of our Nation's worst school shooting tragedies in recent memory, one at Columbine High School in Littleton while I was the Attorney General and one at Platte Canyon High School in Bailey just last year," Salazar said.  "The prevention of school violence is an issue close to my heart and it is one where a small amount of action and planning can go a long way.   The School Safety Enhancements Act takes some extremely important steps to help curb school violence and prepare schools for an emergency.  I am hopeful Congress will pass this school safety legislation to ensure that our children are protected and secure while they are learning." "When it comes to protecting schools and communities, we need to be tough on crime and smart on prevention," Schumer said. "Students must be able to focus on learning, not fretting about safety. Unfortunately, far too often, schools have to rob Peter to pay Paul by taking away funding from education programs in order to keep our schools safe and secure. This legislation will provide an invaluable resource for school leaders and law enforcement professionals and parents as they work together to make our schools a safe haven for our kids." 
The School Safety Enhancements Act improves the Secure Our Schools program, which is currently administered by the Department of Justice through the COPS program.   The bill would do the following:   Add surveillance equipment, tiplines/hotlines, and capital improvements to the list of approved uses of grant funds (money may already be used for metal detectors and locks). Reduce financial burdens on schools implementing safety enhancements. Create an inter-agency task force between the Justice Department and the Department of Education to develop and publish advisory school safety guidelines. Strengthen the bond between law enforcement and schools by requiring more joint consultation and coordination during the application process for these grants. Increase the program authorization from $30 million a year to $50 million a year.   "One of government's top priorities is ensuring the safety of all our schoolchildren. While much progress has been made to protect our students and create a safe learning environment, much more can be done. I look forward to creating an even bigger and better Secure Our Schools program with this bill and am grateful to Senators Boxer and Lautenberg for their leadership in the Senate," said Rothman. "Unlike the previous Republican-led Congress, I am hopeful that the new Democratic Majority will more adequately fund school safety."  