 Washington, D.C. â On Friday, U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) sent the following letter to Health and Human Services Secretary Michael Leavitt:    
  January 13, 2006	    
The Honorable Michael O. Leavitt  The Department of Health and Human Services  200 Independence Avenue, SW  Washington, DC 20201 
Dear Secretary Leavitt:    
I write to request your immediate assistance to States like California that have been forced to cover the costs of the urgent prescription drug coverage problems experienced by large numbers of âdual eligibles.â?  Those dual eligibles, who were previously receiving prescription drug coverage under Medicaid, were automatically enrolled into Medicare prescription drug plans on January 1.  Some of those dual eligibles are now discovering that they face new bureaucratic hurdles and unexpected costs, or even worse, their prescriptions are not covered at all by their new plans.    
California and at least 10 other states will be covering the costs of dual eligiblesâ prescriptions.  In California alone, State officials estimate that potentially 200,000 citizens face serious delays in getting their needed medications or being deprived of them altogether. Covering these citizens will cost the State approximately $70 million over the next two weeks.  I request full, timely Federal reimbursement for California for undertaking such a commitment.    
As you are aware, dual eligibles represent our countryâs most vulnerable populations â elderly and disabled low-income citizens. They are walking out of pharmacies without receiving the medications they require to treat debilitating and life-threatening conditions like heart disease, diabetes, and chronic pain.    
To avoid or mediate potentially urgent, devastating public health effects, states like California have stepped in to ensure their neediest citizens continue to receive life-saving prescription drugs. States in this position should not be penalized for covering the gaps unforeseen by Federal policy. They deserve reimbursement for their efforts as soon as possible.  Please respond immediately to inform us how your Department plans to handle reimbursements to States.  Thank you for your timely consideration.    
Sincerely, 
Barbara Boxer  United States Senator   