 Washington, DC â U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer today supported Senate passage of the five-year Transportation Bill, which will boost Californiaâs share of return for highway funding to 91 percent in 2006, and to 92 percent in Fiscal Year 2009, the final year of the bill.    
Overall highway funding for California will rise from an average of $2.6 billion per year to an average of $3.4 billion per year â a 30 % increase in annual highway funding.  In 1992, the year Boxer was first elected to the Senate, Californiaâs share was 83.2%.    
Boxer said âThis boost in transportation funding will help strengthen Californiaâs economy by helping to move products and people more efficiently, and in turn create jobs for our communities.â? 
The bill also included several provisions championed by Senator Boxer to continue seismic retrofitting of the Golden Gate Bridge, keep foreign trucks from polluting our communities, and help improve safety at rail grade crossings.    
The provision to continue seismic retrofitting of the Golden Gate Bridge: this provision provides 47 million over five years to continue the seismic retrofitting of the Golden Gate B ridge.    
The provision to keep foreign trucks from polluting our communities:  Boxerâs provision requires newly-manufactured, foreign, heavy-duty diesel, long-haul trucks operating within the United States to comply with the same federal clean-air requirements that U.S. trucks must meet.    
The provision to improve rail safety:  Boxerâs provision directs the Secretary of Transportation to study the impact of grade crossings both on accidents and on the ability of emergency responders to perform public safety and security duties.  In addition, the bill includes more than $443 million in funding that could be used for the construction of grade separations, such as bridges and tunnels.  States could also use up to 2 percent of their overall funding for such projects.    
âThis bill will go a long way toward helping Californiaâs cities and communities deal with new challenges to our transportation needs in population growth and goods movement.â?  