 Washington, D.C. â  U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) last night introduced the California Wild Heritage Act of 2006, legislation that would protect more than 2.5 million acres of public lands in California, as well as the free-flowing  portions of 21 rivers.  The bill would also establish the Sacramento River National Recreation Area.    
âCaliforniaâs wilderness and raw, natural beauty are an integral part of our state identity,â? Boxer said. âThis legislation will help preserve and protect more than 2.5 million acres of public lands for future generations, including some of the most magnificent areas in our state. â? 
The California Wilderness bill, which has been introduced in the House by Congresswoman Hilda Solis (D-CA), protects these areas by designating public lands as âwildernessâ? and segments of California rivers as âwild and scenic.â?  These areas would remain open for recreational activities such as horseback riding, fishing, hiking, backpacking, rock climbing, and canoeing.  Mining and drilling would be allowed to continue in areas where they are already occurring, but any expansion of those activities would be prohibited.    
The legislation would also protect vital watersheds in our national forest, which are a source of Californiaâs drinking water supply.  In addition, the bill will help protect and preserve vulnerable ecosystems and threatened species of plants and animals, such as the Spring Run Chinook Salmon.    
Congresswoman Solis said, âThis legislation not only protects our wilderness, but also our health. The wilderness and other green spaces provide a healthy refuge for families to enjoy the outdoors and exercise.  This bill will help ensure that we don't look around one day and realize that all we have is concrete buildings, super highways, and poor health.â?  
The bill will also help create recreation and tourism related jobs by providing funds for the development of visitor centers, trails and informational brochures.    
Boxer added, âCaliforniaâs natural heritage is slipping through our fingers.  Now is the time to protect that legacy and celebrate Californiaâs wild lands, as well as the critical role they play in our tourism industry.â? 
The legislation was developed after years of consultation with local communities, elected officials, recreation organizations, businesses, federal and state agencies and local property owners.    
Last year, the Senate passed the Northern California Coastal Wild Heritage Wilderness Act.  That legislation, sponsored by Senators Boxer and Dianne Feinstein in the Senate, and Representative Mike Thompson (D-Napa Valley) in the House, would designate over 300,000 acres of public land in Del Norte, Humboldt, Lake, Mendocino, and Napa Counties as wilderness.  Unfortunately, the House has so far failed to pass the bill.  