 Washington, DCâLast night, the U.S. Senate passed a resolution introduced by U.S. Senators Barbara Boxer and Dianne Feinstein (both D-CA) honoring the firefighters and other public servants who responded to the devastating Esperanza fire in Southern California last month.     
The resolution states, in part, that the Senate âRecognizes and honors all of the firefighters who responded to the devastating Esperanza Incident fire in Southern California in October 2006; and all others, including emergency, law enforcement and medical personnel and aircraft crews, who contributed to controlling the fire, keeping Californians safe, and finding and arresting the suspected arsonist; and commends the firefighters and other personnel who responded to the fire for dedicated service to the people of California.â? 
In a separate statement submitted to the Congressional Record, Boxer honored the five federal firefighters who were killed in the line of duty while battling the Esperanza fire: Captain Mark Loutzenhiser, Fire Engine Operator Jess McLean, Assistant Fire Engine Operator Jason McKay, Firefighter Daniel Hoover-Najera, and Firefighter Pablo Cerda.  In her statement, Boxer said, âThey and their firefighter colleagues represent the best of America, devoting themselves to public service even at their own peril. Every day, we depend for our safety upon firefighters and their counterparts in the areas of emergency response and law enforcement. I want to voice my enormous gratitude and respect for them.â? 
Senator Feinstein said, âThe five brave firefighters who lost their lives in the battle against the Esperanza fire gave the ultimate sacrifice.  Their heroism will not be forgotten, nor will the sacrifices of their families.  These five men of the Engine 57 crew were on the front lines, protecting thousands of lives and tens of thousands of acres when they were overwhelmed by the fire's flames.  Their deaths represent a tremendous loss for the community, the state, and our nation.â?     Senator Feinstein delivered a eulogy at the Memorial Service in honor of the firefighters, held on November 5, 2006, in San Bernardino.  Those remarks were entered into the Congressional Record yesterday in honor of the fallen firefighters.     
Senator Boxer said today, âWhen I visited the Command Center the day after the grievous incident that eventually took the lives of five firefighters, I realized the deep sense of loss that all of the firefighters felt for their fallen comrades.  We owe full justice to the five who died and the families who will never be the same.â? 
Attached is a PDF of the Boxer-Feinstein Resolution.  