 Washington, D.C.â The Senate Commerce Committee yesterday passed the Transportation Security Improvement Act, which includes key provisions by U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) that will help improve port security and passenger rail security in California and across the country.    
Boxerâs first provision allows for ports to receive multi-year funding grants so that ports can  comply with Congressionally-mandated security requirements and complete long-term projects.  Boxer said, âThe ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach are the largest in the nation.  Port security is a vital component of our national security.  By increasing security at our ports, we can better protect our country against the threat of terrorist attacks.â? 
Boxerâs second provision ensures that funding for Amtrak security will be available for California and other states outside the Northeast Corridor.  Boxer said, âCalifornia has the second highest number of Amtrak riders in the nation.  This provision is essential for our state to receive the resources necessary to keep our rails safe.â? 
Boxerâs third provision ensures stations and tracks used but not owned by Amtrak would also be eligible for security grants.  Amtrak does not own the majority of the tracks or stations it uses in California.  Boxer said, âAmtrak trains use tracks and stations that are desperately in need of security improvements.  Through allowing these stations to receive grants, we will make our rail systems more secure.â? 
Boxerâs fourth provision enables Amtrak Security grant funds to be used to purchase interoperable communications equipment, âAmericaâs first responders are our first line of defense.  In order to keep Amtrak passengers safe, we need to ensure our first responders can communicate with one another in the event of an emergency.â? 
Finally, Boxerâs fifth provision allows Amtrak to fund additional canine units to patrol rail stations and trains.    
The bill will now go to the full Senate for approval.  