 Washington, D.C.   Last night, the U.S. Senate passed the Fiscal Year 2008 omnibus appropriations  bill, which includes funding requested by Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) for key  projects in the Sacramento region.   The following are key projects sought by Senator Boxer  that were included in the bill: South Sacramento Corridor Light Rail  - $4,410,000  Funding for the extension of the light rail will link the  rapidly developing South Sacramento corridor with downtown Sacramento. The project  will also add four new light rail stations with 2,700 park-and-ride  spaces. Boxer said,  Americans living in cities spend an average  of 61 hours every year stalled in traffic. These resources will give Sacramento area residents  better access to more public transportation options and reduce commuter travel  time. *** Wine Viticulture Consortium -  $1,548,087- Funding for a competitive grants program for the  Viticulture Consortium, which works on a wide range of problems affecting grape  growers. The results of the Consortiums research are adapted and directly  applied by the wine and grape industries to maintain economic health, global  competitiveness, sustainability and long-term viability. *** FDA Western Center of Excellence at UC Davis -  $1,489,500 - Funding to create a Western Region FDA Center of Excellence  at the University  of California Davis.  California and  other western states provide the majority of our nations fruits, vegetables, specialty crops,  dairy products and seafood as well as lead the nation in import and export of  food products. The FDA Western Center would be the first of its kind located west of  the Mississippi River. *** Carl R. Hansen Teen Center,  Sacramento - $160,000 - Funding will go to construction of a  new teen center facility for at risk youth in the North area of Sacramento, CA  at about 10,000 square feet including an indoor basketball court *** Chronic Homelessness Elimination  Project - $95,312 - Funding will close the gaps in the  critically important services including assistance with the delivery of medical,  mental health, substance abuse, and employment services.  Boxer said, Through  housing assistance and other resources, disabled chronically homeless  individuals will be able to achieve housing stability and lead more independent  lives.   The Senate passed the omnibus spending bill by a  vote of 76 to17. The House is expected to approve Senate changes to the bill  later this week, at which point it will go to the President for his  signature.  