 Washington, DC  Last night, the U.S. Senate passed the  Fiscal Year 2008 omnibus appropriations bill, which includes more than $1.5  million requested by Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) for projects in Riverside  County to address issues of traffic and public  safety. The spending bill includes $1,391,600 in  funding for the planning and design of grade separations at 27 areas within the  City of Riverside where train tracks and roads  intersect.  This funding will help the  City of Riverside address the problem of severely  delayed traffic at grade crossings, Boxer said. The construction of new grade separations will help  make it easier for cargo to move inland and across America  from our ports, as well as make the roads safer for the  community. The spending bill also includes funding for the  following programs.   Vocational  Training and Gang Prevention Program (Moreno Valley) - $118,895 - The  funding is for a gang prevention program that will involve working with local  non-profits, education institutions, and/or other work-force agencies to provide  vocational training for young adults, age 17 to 22. The program will also  include the development of internships with local businesses to put the  trainees job skills to use upon graduation.   Primary  and Urgent Care Clinic (Desert Hot Springs) - $76,643 - The funding  will support a joint project between the City of Desert Hot Springs and  Riverside County for the construction and modernization of a primary and urgent  care medical clinic.    Riverside  Community College School of Nursing Program (Moreno Valley) -  $335,043 - As part of the effort  to address the national nursing shortage, the program will identify and recruit  high school students with an interest in health care degrees and prepare them  for direct entrance into RCCs Associate Degree Nursing Program. The Senate passed the omnibus spending bill by a vote of  76 to17. The House is expected to approve Senate changes to the bill later this  week, at which point it will go to the President for his  signature.   