 Washington, DC Last night, the U.S. Senate passed the FY 2008 Omnibus  Appropriations bill, which includes more than $61 million requested by Senator  Barbara Boxer (D-CA) for Bay Area projects ranging from programs for at-risk  youth and gang prevention to wetlands restoration and dredging that will allow  the Port of  Oakland to receive newer,  larger cargo ships. Boxer sought funding for the  following projects included in the omnibus spending  bill:   After  School Programs for At-Risk Youth (East Palo Alto) - $76,643 - The  funding will provide after-school learning and enrichment activities in  East Palo Alto, where over one third of the  citys residents are under the age of 19, and the high school dropout rate is 64  percent.   The Place  to Be After Three Program (City of Fairfield) - $406,796  Funding  will support daily operation of after school programs including physical fitness  and nutrition components at three middle school sites and one alternative  education site.   Gang Prevention Initiative  (East Palo Alto) - $466,500 -  Funding for personnel and support to maintain Anti-Gang Initiative in  cooperation with 13 other local, state, and federal law enforcement  agencies.   Solano County Gang and  Methamphetamine Enforcement Teams - $164,500 - Funding to  continue and expand two multi-jurisdictional enforcement teams  one for  methamphetamine and one for gangs. Providing quality after-school  programs is a critical investment in our childrens well-being and  productivity. This bill makes an important investment in after-school and gang  prevention programs that will help keep our kids safe and provide them with a  real alternative to drugs, gangs and violence, Boxer  said. * *  *   Port of Oakland Harbor  Deepening - $40,666,752 - Continuation of the  Port of  Oaklands 50 foot channel  deepening project. The project will deepen the federal channels of the  Oakland Harbor and Port-maintained  berths to a depth of 50ft. below mean lower low water (MLLW) in order to  accommodate the newest generation of deep-draft container ships.  As the fourth busiest port in the  nation, Oakland  harbor is one of this countrys most important economic  gateways,This bill provides critical funding to deepen the  Oakland harbor so that the next generation of  commercial ships can reach the Port of Oakland. This environmentally sound  project will also use material left over from dredging to restore wetlands in  the San Francisco Bay. Boxer said.  * *  *   Nutrition  Education Program (Berkeley) - $324,258 - The Edible  Schoolyard is a nutrition education program that teaches the principles of  ecology, the origins of food, and promotes healthy food choices.  As the nation confronts the crisis  of childhood obesity, the Edible Schoolyard program is at the cutting edge of  providing young people with healthy diet options, said  Boxer. * *  *   Hamilton Airfield Wetlands Restoration (Marin County)  - $8,375,808 - The first phase of the Hamilton Wetland Restoration  Project will provide nearly 700 acres of restored tidal and seasonal wetlands at  the site of a former Army base in Marin County acquired through the BRAC  process. Making beneficial use of sediment dredged from the maintenance of  maritime channels, the project will provide habitat for several threatened and  endangered species as well as shorebirds and waterfowl migrating along the  Pacific Flyway.  ***  San Francisco Bay Salt Pond Restoration -  $4,922,000 - The project will restore the health of the San Francisco  Bay, one of the nations largest estuaries, by creating the largest restored  wetlands on the West Coast, providing extensive habitat for federally endangered  species and migratory birds. It will also provide tidal and fluvial flood  protection in the Bay, including approximately 42,800 acres, 7,400 homes and  businesses and significant urban infrastructure including major highways, parks  and airports. ***   Angel  Island Immigration Station (San Francisco) - $1,107,450 - The Angel  Island Immigration Station is considered the Ellis Island of the West, where  more than one million immigrants entered the United States between 1910-1940.  It has been designated a National Historic Landmark and one of Americas 11 Most Endangered  Historic Places. Funding would go towards the restoration of the Hospital at  the Angel Island Immigration Station, which would be used as a museum,  administrative, interpretative and genealogical research  facility. ***   Direct  Access to Housing Program for Chronically Homeless (San Francisco) -  $1,436,561 - The funding is for the City of San Franciscos Direct  Access to Housing (DAH) program, which provides housing to chronically homeless  and disabled persons struggling with medical, mental health and/or substance  abuse issues. The program includes on-site behavioral health services and  provides access to primary care for persons at extremely high risk for continued  health deterioration and death as a result of their chronic  homelessness. ***   San  Francisco  Supportive and Transitional Housing - $525,280 - Funding will help  provide permanent supportive housing for homeless individuals and programs to  help homeless persons in the City transition to a life of  self-sufficiency. ***   Mason  Street  Project (San  Francisco) -  $588,000  Funding is for new construction of Mason  Street Housing, a 56-unit development to provide permanent supportive housing  for homeless individuals. ***   Ed Roberts  Campus (Berkeley) - $238,772 - The funding will be for construction  of a disability and transit center that will offer a wide range of health,  rehabilitation and other services for disabled children, adults, and seniors.  The facility will provide direct services to approximately 100,000 Californians  each year. ***   East Bay Regional  Communications System - $540,500 - Dublin, San Ramon, Pleasanton and Danville will join a two-county system allowing  for shared, interoperable communications between different agencies and  disciplines. ***   San Francisco Old Mint - $500,000 - Funding will go  towards the restoration of the Old Mint building and implementation of the  Museum of the City of San  Francisco. ***   East Palo Alto Water Supply Improvements - $812,130 -  Funding will be used to reopen the Gloria Well and add a new water treatment  system. The well would provide 500,000 gallons per day, meeting the Citys water  requirements through 2010 and enabling East Palo  Alto to continue to approve new development projects that are part  of the communitys revitalization plan. ***   Marin  County Breast Cancer Research - $286,919 - The funding is for a  research project to investigate the high and increasing incidence rate of breast  cancer in Marin County in order to decrease breast cancer rates locally and  nationally. *** The Senate passed the omnibus spending bill by a vote of  76 to17. The House is expected to approve Senate changes to the bill later this  week, at which point it will go to the President for his  signature.  