 Washington, D.C.  Last night, the U.S. Senate passed the Fiscal Year 2008 omnibus appropriations  bill, which includes funding requested by Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) for key  water projects in the Sacramento  region. Sacramento is situated at the  confluence of the American and Sacramento Rivers and suffers from aging flood  control infrastructure.The Army Corps of Engineers ranks Sacramento as the U.S. urban area most in danger of  serious flooding. A major flood in Sacramento could endanger  the lives of hundreds of thousands of individuals and cause billions of dollars  in damage, Boxer said.With passage of this spending bill, we are finally  providing the necessary resources to move these projects along and protect the  people of the Sacramento area. The following are key water projects  sought by Senator Boxer that were included in the  bill: Folsom Dam Modifications  - $5,809,536 - Funding for  modifications to Folsom Dam for greater efficiency in managing flood storage in  Folsom Reservoir.The modifications would increase the release of water from  36,000 cfs to 115,000 cfs during the early part of flood operations, allowing  the reservoir to have increased storage available during the peak of a  storm.Modifications include constructing a gated auxiliary spillway to allow  for the increased passage of storm water through the dam. Folsom Dam Raise -  $16,944,480 - Funding to raise  Folsom Dam, which is a key component to reducing Sacramentos flood risk.Widespread flooding  along the American River would cover approximately 86 square miles of the  developed Sacramento area, potentially affecting 330,000  people and $16 billion in property. *** American River Common Features -  $7,746,048 - Funding for the  Common Features project which includes installation of slurry walls on the Lower  American River (LAR) levees, modification of the Sacramento River east levee in  the Natomas Basin, installation of telemetering gages above Folsom, modification  of the strengthening of levees, installation of a closure structure at Mayhew  Drain and modification of Natomas Cross Canal Levees flood warning  system. *** South Sacramento Streams -  $10,133,232 -  Funding for channel and levee  improvements, detention facilities, ecosystem restoration and recreation  features to protect Sacramento from high water  from the Mokelumne-Consumes River system and the Morrison Creek  watershed.Construction of this project is essential to provide a minimum  100-year protection to over 100,000 residents and property valued at over $7  billion in the South Sacramento  area. *** City of West Sacramento -  $4,303,032 - Funding to  identify, evaluate, and correct deficiencies in the Citys levee system.Using  recently adopted federal standards, a preliminary assessment of the levee system  has shown the risk of catastrophic flooding. The Senate passed the omnibus spending bill by a vote of  76 to17. The House is expected to approve Senate changes to the bill later this  week, at which point it will go to the President for his  signature.  