 Washington, D.C. B Troubled that FEMA may not have a plan to respond to a potential catastrophic earthquake in California, U.S. Senators Barbara Boxer and Senator Dianne Feinstein (both D-CA) today requested a Congressional hearing on the status of the federal governmentâs disaster recovery plan for a major California earthquake.  The request for a hearing follows previous requests for President Bush to release FEMAâs California earthquake recovery plan.    
Following is the Senatorsâ letter to Senators Collins and Lieberman requesting a Congressional hearing.     
   October 19, 2005    
The Honorable Susan Collins  Chairwoman  Senate Homeland Security and Government Affairs Committee  Washington, D.C.  20510    
The Honorable Joe Lieberman  Ranking Member  Senate Homeland Security and Government Affairs Committee  Washington, D.C.  20510    
Dear Chairwoman Collins and Ranking Member Lieberman:    
We are writing to request a hearing on the status of the Federal Emergency Management Agencyâs (FEMA) disaster recovery plan for a major earthquake in California.  We are concerned that FEMA is not prepared and may not even have a plan.    
After seeing FEMAâs slow response in responding to Hurricane Katrina, we want to make sure that a similar tragedy does not happen if a major earthquake occurs in California.  Therefore, five weeks ago, the President was asked to provide a copy of FEMAâs plan so it could be shared with officials in California.    
To date, we have not received a copy of the plan, leading us to believe that FEMA may not even have a plan.  We wrote to the President this week again requesting the emergency plan.    
We urge you to hold hearings on the status of the federal governmentâs disaster recovery plan in the event of a major earthquake in California.  We need to get to the bottom of this situation and ensure that we are prepared to respond to natural disasters.    
Thank you for your consideration.    
Sincerely,    
Barbara Boxer					Dianne Feinstein    
United States Senator				United States Senator    
  