 Washington, D.C. â U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) today made the following statement regarding World AIDS Day 2005: 
Last month, President Bush signed into law the Assistance for Orphans and Other Vulnerable Children Act of 2005, bipartisan legislation I cosponsored with Senator Richard Lugar (R-IN) that would help those most vulnerable to the HIV-AIDS pandemic throughout the world.    
The HIV-AIDS pandemic has created an unprecedented orphan crisis in the developing world.  According to UNICEF, there are more than 143 million children living in the developing world who are identified as orphans.  In sub-Saharan Africa alone, 14 million children have lost one or both parents to HIV-AIDS.    
This new law is designed to provide a comprehensive response to help the most vulnerable children.    
First, it requires the President to develop and submit to Congress a strategyâwith measurable performance indicatorsâto assist orphans and vulnerable children.    
Second, it authorizes the President to provide assistance to orphans and other vulnerable children in the areas of basic care, HIV-AIDS treatment, school food programs, protection of inheritance rights, and education and employment training assistance.    
Third, it calls on the President to use U.S. foreign assistance to support programs that eliminate school feesâwhich often prevent children from attending school.    
Finally, the bill creates the position of Special Advisor for Assistance to Orphans and Vulnerable Children to make sure that this critical issue is a priority for this country.    
This law is just the first step.  We all know that it takes hard money to see these policies become a reality.  Current law states that at least 10 percent of international HIV-AIDS assistance over the next two years must be spent on programs to assist orphans and other vulnerable children.    
It is estimated that the US will spend $3.4 billion for fiscal year 2006 on international AIDS fundingâso I expect that at least $340 million will be available to carry out this act.    
We must be committed to the fight against HIV-AIDS, and our commitment must begin with helping those most vulnerable.  Children orphaned by HIV-AIDS often face the heartbreaking scenario of losing a parent to AIDS and then being left alone to suffer from extreme hunger, poverty and sickness.    
The United States must be a leaderâwe cannot stand by and allow these children to continue suffering, alone and afraid, while we have the means to help.     
I hope that as people all around the world recognize today as World AIDS Day, we will recommit ourselves to fighting the spread of HIV/AIDS, and caring for those most vulnerableâ the children who have been left alone and sick from this terrible epidemic.  