 Washington, D.C. - U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) today spoke on the Senate floor, urging President Bush to sign the emergency supplemental bill, legislation that provides critical funds for our soldiers, troops and veterans, as well as funding for recent domestic emergencies. Boxer also called on the President to change course in Iraq.  Following are excerpts of Sen. Boxer's floor speech: "Today is the fourth anniversary of the President's speech that major combat operations are over. Four years ago he said that in a military outfit. Yet, today, we read, 'April Toll is Highest of '07 for U.S. Troops. Over 100 Killed in Month; Iraqi Deaths Far Higher.' [The Washington Post] Four years ago the President said major combat operations are over. Today, we read, the deadliest month in 2007."  "This President's policies left unchecked have been a disaster. What does he want? More of the same. He criticizes us for coming up with a new policy, and this new policy will work because it combines a gradual redeployment of troops with a focus on diplomacy and a political solution, which is exactly what everyone says we need. General Petraeus says we must have a political and diplomatic solution. Well, everyone has heard it, but obviously, not this President." "Anyone who reads the Constitutionâand I highly recommend itâwill see that when it comes to war, there is a shared responsibility. As a matter of fact, if you read the Constitution, you'll see that Congress is mentioned far more times, far more times than the President. And the President can't act as if he's king. We already had one King George. We have a democracy. This is what the President says our young people are dying for in Iraq. Yet, here at home, he acts as if he is a one-man show when it comes to Iraq. And the American people said no to that this past election. And yet he continues as if there is no Congress, there has been no election, there has been no change of heart by the American people, when in fact there has been an enormous change of heart by the American people, and that change of heart was reflected in the elections."  "Mr. President, take a look at what we have done for our people here at home in this bill. You deride it and make it sound like we are spending on things we shouldn't. Why shouldn't we fix up Walter Reed? Why shouldn't we fix up the Veterans Administration so when our soldiers come home they get mental health care? Why shouldn't we invest in better technologies to protect our troops from these horrific landmines. Why shouldn't we help our farms who lost their money because of horrific droughts, horrific frosts? That's what the bills are forâemergencies." "In light of everything that has happened, doesn't this President understand it's time for a change? Doesn't he listen to the voters? Doesn't he read these articles? 'Send me the bill, I'm going to veto it.' It is not brave to continue a failing policy. I don't think it's courageous not to admit it's time to change. I don't think it shows strength. I think it's stubborn. I think it's wrong, and worst of all, our troops are paying the price for this stubbornness." "Mr. President, sign this bill. Have a change of heart. Read the paper today... read what our troops are saying. Reconsider."   