 Washington, D.C.창 U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) today offered an amendment to the Emergency Supplemental to help protect American troops from roadside bombs in Iraq. 
"Our men and women in uniform often are in harm's way in Iraq where many of them face the deadly threat of roadside bombs on a daily basis," Boxer said.  "It is my hope that my amendment will immediately bring lifesaving protection to our soldiers serving in Iraq." Boxer창s amendment would add an additional $35 million to the Emergency Supplemental for the purchase and rapid fielding of jamming devices to prevent roadside bombs.  These jamming devices can counter and neutralize the threat from roadside bombs and would be distributed to military personnel serving in combat zones around the world. 
As of April 2005, 328, or approximately 21% of the soldiers killed in Iraq, have lost their lives to roadside bomb attacks, second only to death by hostile enemy fire.  According to estimates by the House Appropriation Committee, the Department of Defense has only fielded 25 percent of the required number of jammers to protect troops from roadside bomb attacks in Iraq. 
Despite the deadliness of roadside bombs, the DoD did not request any funding in the Emergency Supplemental to procure jamming devices for the U.S. Army.  According to General Myers, the DoD is waiting for the next generation of jammers, known as "Spiral 2," to finish testing. The Spiral 2s are expected to be delivered in January 2006 at the earliest. 
"We cannot risk American lives while we wait for the next generation of jamming devices 창 we should utilize the resources we have to provide our troops with the protection they need now," Boxer said. 
The $35 million provided by Boxer창s amendment would be in addition to the $25 million already added by the Senate Appropriations Committee for this effort, for a total of $60 million.  The $60 million is the amount added to the House-passed version of the supplemental.  Senator Jeff Bingaman (D-NM) is a co-sponsor of the amendment.  