 Washington, D.C.  Yesterday the U.S. Senate Appropriations Committee approved the fiscal year 2008 Agriculture Appropriations Bill, which includes funding for key California projects requested by Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA).  The following are key projects sought by Senator Boxer that were included in the bill: Fresh Produce Food Safety: The Committee approved $700,000 in funding to establish a competitive grants program to advance scientific knowledge of food-borne illnesses. Recent incidents of E. coli and other microbial contaminants in spinach and leafy greens resulted in several tragic deaths and shook consumer confidence in our nations food safety, resulting in millions of dollars in losses for our agriculture industry. Boxer said, The days and weeks following last years spinach recall showed us that there is still much to be done to protect our nations food supply. Every step we take to protect public health and safety will also help safeguard against future losses and keep our economy strong, *** FDA Western Center for Safety and Defense: The Committee approved $2,000,000 in funding to create a Western Region FDA Center of Excellence at the University  of California Davis. California and other western states provide the majority of our nations fruits, vegetables, specialty crops, dairy products and seafood as well as lead the nation in import and export of food products. The FDA Western Center would be the first of its kind located west of the Mississippi  River. *** California County Pest Detection: The Committee approved $831,000 in funding to continue the California County Pest Detection and Augmentation Program, which is a statewide network of insect traps and other detection tools that serve as an early warning system against serious agricultural pests in the State of California.  Boxer said, Californias County Pest Detection Program has been on the frontline of efforts to protect our growers from potentially crop-damaging pests. These funds will help to make sure that they have the resources they need to continue doing so. *** Pierces Disease The Committee approved $1,500,000 for a competitive grants program to help eliminate Pieces Disease, a devastating bacterial disease that threatens Californias $3.4 billion wine, table and raisin grape industries. *** Viticulture The Committee approved $1,200,000 in funding for a competitive grants program for the Viticulture Consortium, which works on a wide range of problems affecting grape growers. The Viticulture Consortium project has generated significant positive benefits for California and other grape growing states. The industry is helping to set the research agenda, and results are being adapted and directly applied by the wine and grape industries to maintain economic health, global competitiveness, sustainability and long-term viability. *** Orange County Municipal Water District: The Committee approved $200,000 in funding to improve the efficiency of irrigation water use by regulating the amount of water that is delivered based on soil, slope, and type of landscape. The program will receive contributions from Orange County cities and water agencies as well as incentives from the Metropolitan Water District of Southern California. Three million residents will benefit from this critically needed project.  ###  