 Washington, D.C. - U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) today announced that the Treasury, Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations bill passed by the Senate includes $200,000 to build a new Inglewood Senior Citizens Center, providing a state-of-the-art facility to serve the areaâs growing senior population.    
"The new Inglewood Senior Citizens Center will help improve the quality of life for Inglewood's seniors," Boxer said.  "These resources will help the Center provide Inglewood seniors with access to meals, affordable housing, transportation and medical information." 
Mayor Roosevelt F. Dorn of Inglewood said, "We are very pleased that Senator Boxer continues to support the building of our Senior Citizens Center.  We want to thank Senator Boxer for her continued support of the city of Inglewood and our projects." 
The new facility will replace the current Senior Citizens Center, which was converted from a carpet warehouse in 1975.  The current center, which measures 14,000 square feet, has limited access for disabled patrons, no housing units, and is not equipped with adequate facilities to serve the growing senior citizen population.    
The new Inglewood Senior Citizens Center will include 60 units of affordable housing, and replace the current facility.  When completed, the new 17,500 square-foot center will have expanded facilities for seniors with disabilities, and upgraded equipment for staff and patron needs.  The city is reviewing final architectural plans for the new facility, scheduled for construction in January 2006.    
From its present location, the center serves over 800 seniors daily, preparing and serving meals, and providing activities, medical information and patient-care referrals.  The center also serves another 1,000 seniors a day by providing transportation and delivering meals to their homes.    
This appropriations bill provides funding for the Departments of Transportation, Treasury, and Housing and Urban Development for fiscal year 2006. The House approved this appropriations bill in June.  The bill now goes to conference.  	  