 Washington, D.C. â U.S. Senators Barbara Boxer (D-CA) and Daniel Akaka (D-HI) today introduced legislation to create a new federal competitive grant program for universities and colleges where Asian and Pacific Islander students make up at least 10 percent of the undergraduate student body.    
The legislation, which authorizes $30 million for 2006 and such sums as may be necessary for the next 4 years, would allow these institutions to provide more higher education opportunities for low-income minority students.  The funds can be used for a wide range of activities, including outreach to high school and elementary school students, renovation and improvement of campus facilities, curriculum development, tutoring, counseling and other student support services.    
Senator Boxer said, âRight now, there is no federal assistance targeted to schools that serve a large number of low-income Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders.  We need to make college just as accessible to low-income Asian American students as other minority students.  This bill is an important step toward that goal and will help encourage greater diversity at our institutions of higher education.â? 
Senator Akaka (D-HI) stated, âThe Asian American and Pacific Islander community has made many significant contributions to our country, and is known as having the highest percentage of undergraduate and advanced degrees when compared to other racial or ethnic groups according to the College Board. Their higher education needs should be better understood and addressed. The establishment of AAPI Serving Institutions detailed in this bill introduced by my colleague Senator Boxer would be a major step in the right direction for this multifaceted population.â? 
This program would join other programs that provide funds for Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBUC), Hispanic-serving institutions, Tribally Controlled Colleges and Universities and Alaska Native and Native Hawaiian-Serving Institutions.  