 Washington, DC -- U.S. Senators Barbara Boxer (D-CA) and Olympia  Snowe (R-ME) said they were encouraged by Japans decision to suspend its hunt of humpback  whales at the request of the United States. I am pleased that Japan  has responded to international pressure and suspended part of what its Fisheries  Agency calls its largest whale hunt ever, Boxer said.  While I am glad that the Japanese have  called off their hunt of humpback whales, I remain concerned that they are still  hunting over 1,000 whales, including the endangered fin  whale. Senator Snowe said, Japan's decision to halt their  planned hunting of endangered humpback whales shows the positive outcomes that  can be achieved through effective diplomacy. This decision underscores the  importance of the International Whaling Commissions efforts to protect large  whales. IWC Chairman Bill Hogarth should be commended for the instrumental role  he played in achieving this important outcome for the conservation and  protection of this endangered species. As Bill prepares to retire as Assistant  Administrator of the National Marine Fisheries Service, this is certainly a  remarkable achievement that will shape his legacy of success in the  international marine conservation  arena. Senators Boxer and Snowe, along with six other Senators,  sent a letter to the Japanese Ambassador to the United States last month asking Japan  to suspend or limit its whale hunt and spare protected and endangered whales,  including humpback and fin whales.  The text of the letter follows:   November 29, 2007   The Honorable Ryozo  Kato  Ambassador Extraordinary  Plenipotentiary of Japan to the United  States 2520 Massachusetts Avenue,  NW Washington, DC 20008   Dear  Ambassador Kato:   We write today to respectfully request that Japan  reconsider its impending hunt of approximately 1,000 whales, including fin and  protected humpback whales. As we understand, a Japanese whaling fleet is en  route to the Antarctic Ocean to hunt these mammals over the next few months for  what Japan has called research purposes.  We are particularly concerned about the size and scope of the hunt, and the  targeting of 50 humpback whales. This is the first time Japan  has sought to kill this particular species since it was protected by a worldwide  moratorium in 1966.    First and foremost, we believe there are other means  available for Japan to undertake scientific  research on whales and whale populations. In 1986, the International Whaling  Commission banned commercial whaling, while providing an exemption for  scientific research. While we acknowledge the exemption, we question the  necessity of conducting a hunt of this magnitude, and are strongly opposed to  the targeting of protected species. Non-lethal techniques exist that allow  collection of necessary data to better understand whale populations, and we  encourage Japan to conduct its research using  these methods.   We also worry that Japans  proposed actions could inflict significant harm on vulnerable whale populations.  Whales are highly migratory animals and a shared global resource. Humpback  whales, known for their unique vocalizations and athleticism, were once hunted  to the brink of extinction. And although populations have increased, the World  Conservation Union currently lists the humpback whale and the fin whale as  vulnerable and endangered, respectively.    As such, we join the growing  chorus of world leaders and environmental experts in asking Japan  to reconsider its decision to conduct this hunt, or, at a minimum, significantly  scale back its scope. We also ask that Japan immediately cease the killing  of both humpback and fin whales, and only employ non-lethal techniques for  studying these populations. By pursuing these actions, Japan  can continue to make significant scientific contributions, while conserving and  protecting these important species.    Thank you for your consideration of  this important request.   Sincerely,   Barbara  Boxer Joseph R. Biden,  Jr.  United States Senator United States  Senator  Olympia J.  Snowe John F. Kerry  United States  Senator United States Senator   Joe  Lieberman Maria  Cantwell  United States Senator United  States Senator   Ron Wyden Russ Feingold   United States Senator United States Senator ###  