 Washington, D.C.  - U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) today applauded the Senate Commerce Committeeâs passage of two major oceans policy bills â the Ballast Water Management Act and the Coral Reef Conservation Act.    
Boxer, the Ranking Member of the Commerce Committeeâs subcommittee on oceans, said, "Iâm pleased that the Committee moved forward on these important oceans bills.  We have a lot more to do regarding oceans policy, but today marks an important step in the right direction." 
Ballast water from foreign ships threatens ocean health by carrying non-native plant and animal species into local waters.  Invasive species destroy habitat, attack native species, and upsets  ecological balance.  In the San Francisco Bay alone, more than 175 invasive species threaten to overwhelm native fish and other wildlife.    
Boxer included provisions of the ballast water bill as part of her comprehensive oceans legislation introduced earlier this year.   The committee-passed ballast water bill, like the provisions in Boxerâs comprehensive bill, provide new regulations on ballast water and would prohibit most untreated discharges of ballast water into U.S. waters.  Boxerâs oceans bill also addresses the need for the early detection of and rapid response to invasive species.    
"Iâd like to give a special thanks to Senator Inouye for putting together a great consensus bill that tackles the problem of invasive species from ballast water," said Boxer.  "I know that Senators Inouye, Stevens and Sununu have made some very important improvements to this bill and I appreciate their hard work.  I look forward to further strengthening this bill as we move toward floor action." 
Boxerâs comprehensive oceans legislation was introduced after two high level national commissions, the congressionally established bipartisan U.S. Commission on Ocean Policy, and the independent Pew Ocean Commission, found the worldâs oceans to be in severe distress.  Boxerâs bill implements many of the commissionsâ recommendations by specifically targeting some of the most serious challenges facing oceans.    