 Washington, DC - U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer and Representative Lynn Woolsey (both D-CA) this week introduced legislation that would permanently protect the coastal waters and estuaries of Sonoma County and extend the boundaries of the Gulf of the Farallones and Cordell Bank National Marine Sanctuaries.   Senator Dianne Feinstein (also D-CA) and all of the Democratic members of the California House Delegation have signed on as original cosponsors. 
Boxer said, "This legislation is designed to protect one of the worldâs most important marine environments.  By including the Sonoma Coast in the National Marine Sanctuary program, we would ensure this beautiful part of Californiaâs coast remains vibrant for future generations." 
Woolsey said, "The expansion of the Marine Sanctuary program is necessary to ensure the health of the Sonoma coastline for future generations, the protection of marine habitat, and the preservation of fish populations that are vital to our survival.  Continuing to allow our coastline to be protected by moratorium alone will no longer work." 
Feinstein said, "The waters off the Sonoma coast are one of Californiaâs hidden treasures.  They are teeming with life and provide a rich habitat for marine mammals, fish, and seabirds.  Thatâs why it is so important that we protect this habitat and ensure that it remains vibrant and biologically diverse." 
The Boxer-Woolsey National Marine Sanctuary Boundary Modification and Protection Act would expand the boundaries of the two existing National Marine Sanctuaries to protect the entire Sonoma Coast.  Through expanding the boundaries of both the Gulf of the Farallones and Cordell Bank National Marine Sanctuaries, the legislation would protect the Russian and Gualala River estuaries and the nutrient-rich Bodega Canyon from off-shore oil drilling and pollution. 
By preserving the Sonoma Coast, the Boxer-Woolsey legislation would also help protect the jobs of those that are dependent on a healthy coast for their livelihood, such as commercial fisherman and the local tourist economy. 
The Sonoma Coast is one of the planetâs most biologically productive marine environments.  The two marine sanctuaries along the Sonoma Coast support many species of marine mammals, birds and fishes, including endangered blue and humpback whales.  