 Washington, D.C. â U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) today sent the following letter to the President:  February 22, 2006   The Honorable George W. Bush    The White House    1600 Pennsylvania Ave. NW    Washington, DC 20500 Dear President Bush:  I write to express my concerns about statements made by members of your Administration regarding foreign companies that manage operations at U.S. ports, such as Peninsular and Oriental Steam Navigation Company (P), the firm in question in the Dubai Ports World purchase. Key members of your Administration have asserted that such companies do not have any responsibility over port security.   For example, White House Press Secretary Scott McClellan said today, âThis is not about the security of our ports...And let me be very clear: One thing we will never do is outsource to anyone the control and security of our ports, whether thatâs Dubai or any other entity that operates terminals at our ports.â?   In addition, Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez said, âThey [the private companies] are not in charge of security. We are not turning over the security of our ports.â?   However, the Department of Homeland Securityâs (DHS) public website lists federal port security grants worth millions of dollars that have been awarded to foreign-owned terminal operators, including companies owned by foreign governments.  For example, DHS awarded Eagle Marine Services Ltd., a terminal operator in Los Angeles, Oakland, and Seattle, $1 million for a port security grant in 2003. Eagle Marine Services is a subsidiary of APL, which is a subsidiary of Neptune Orient Lines, a Singapore governmentâowned company.  And, DHS awarded P Ports Louisiana, a subsidiary of Peninsular and Oriental Steam Navigation Company, a port security grant in 2002 for $487,500.   If these firms are not involved in security, as your Administration asserts, then why are they receiving precious port security grants from DHS? And if these firms are eligible for port security grants, then wouldnât Dubai Ports World also be eligible if their takeover bid goes forward?  While it may make sense to award federal homeland security dollars directly to private firms operating at our nationâs ports, as your Administration has done in recent years, you cannot credibly argue at the same time that these firms have no role in port security.    Sincerely,  Barbara Boxer      United States Senator     