 Washington, D.C. - In light of a recent report that predicts a devastating earthquake could occur on the southern end of the San Andreas fault at any time, U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) today heightened her call for Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff to create a federal response plan for a major California earthquake.    
 Below please find Senator Boxer's letter to Secretary Chertoff: 
June 22, 2006 The Honorable Michael Chertoff     Secretary of Homeland Security    U.S. Department of Homeland Security    Washington, D.C. 20528 Dear Secretary Chertoff: Last September, after the Federal Emergency Management Administrations (FEMA) disastrously slow response to Hurricane Katrina, I requested a copy of FEMAs disaster recovery plan to respond to a major earthquake in California.  Three months after my initial request, your office responded by sending me a copy of the National Response Plan, which is a generic, one-size-fits-all response plan for terrorist attacks and natural disasters in the United Statesnot a specific plan for coping with the immediate aftermath of an earthquake in California. Further, since the National Response Plan was already in place before Hurricane Katrina struck the Gulf Coast, I do not have much faith in it as a guide for responding to large scale disasters.  So today, I am again writing about the urgent need for a specific response plan for an earthquake in California. Yuri Fialko, a geophysicist at the Scripps Institution of Oceanography, recently wrote in Nature magazine that the southern end of the San Andreas fault is under enormous pressure that could result in a magnitude 7.5 to 8 earthquake at any time. Although Mr. Fialko observed that the timing of an earthquake is very difficult to predict, he stated that we seem to be overdue with respect to the earthquake cycle.  Mr. Secretary, an earthquake of that magnitude could cause unimaginable devastation in the nearby communities of Los Angeles, Palm Springs, San Bernardino and Riverside. Even after all of the hard lessons we learned from September 11th and Hurricane Katrina, the federal government remains frighteningly unprepared to respond to a major earthquake.  I urge you to immediately take action to craft a specific federal response plan for a major earthquake in California.   Sincerely,   Barbara Boxer    United States Senator   