 Washington, D.C. â Today, U.S. Senators Barbara Boxer (D-CA) and Joe Lieberman (D-CT) announced that their mental health amendment was accepted into the Senate Defense Authorization bill. The amendment improves mental health screening and monitoring for members of the Armed Forces.    
Currently, thousands of our Armed Forces are suffering from Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) and other mental health conditions as a result of serving multiple and prolonged tours of duty in the combat zones of Iraq and Afghanistan.  Many of our service members are not being adequately screened and treated for these conditions.     
The Boxer-Lieberman amendment:    
 Creates a detailed and comprehensive screening process to assess the mental health status of individual soldiers before they are deployed.  Mandates timely access to mental health services if requested by a member of the Armed Forces before, during, or after deployment to combat zones. Directs the Department of Defense (DoD) to develop clear and consistent guidelines and regulations on what preexisting mental health conditions guide eligibility for deployment to a combat zone.  Requires the Department to develop guidelines for the deployabilty and treatment of service members diagnosed specifically with severe mental illness or PTSD. Calls on DoD to develop a plan to monitor individuals deployed to a combat zone who are known to have a mental health condition or disorder or are known to be receiving mental health treatment, including the use of psychotropic medications.  
I commend the families and service members who have bravely come forward to discuss problems in our mental health system for the Armed Forces, Senator Boxer said. I am thankful to the media for exposing the inadequacies in screening and treatment for mental health illnesses and PTSD in soldiers. They told the stories that must be told. Now we must fight in conference committee to make sure this amendment is not stripped from the Defense Authorization bill. Senators Boxer, Kennedy, Clinton, and I introduced this amendment to protect the health and safety of service members and their units - similar to the ones The Hartford Courant has written about, Senator Lieberman said. The military mental health amendment has two purposes. First, it is meant to keep these courageous young men and women out of the way of any further harm. Second, we must make certain that our units have the strongest and healthiest soldiers and this amendment moves us in the right direction. I thank both Senators Levin and Warner for adopting this amendment into the Defense Authorization Bill for 2007 and I encourage the conferees in both Houses to maintain the provisions of this amendment to ensure we keep our troops strong and healthy. Other co-sponsors of the amendment include Senator Edward M. Kennedy (D-MA), Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton (D-NY) and Senator Dick Durbin (D-IL).  