 WASHINGTON, D.C.  Today, U.S. Senators Barbara Boxer (D-CA) and Gordon Smith (R-OR) introduced the Stop Tuberculosis (TB) Act of 2007, legislation that would increase funding to combat international TB. Senators Dick Durbin (D-IL) and Sherrod Brown (D-OH) are also co-sponsors of the bill.  Boxer said, Tuberculosis kills 1.6 million people per year  one person every 15 seconds. If we do not take action now to fully address the TB epidemic, we will face a true crisis throughout the world. We have an obligation to take the steps necessary to meet this challenge. The Boxer-Smith bill would bring U.S. policy in line with the Global Plan to Stop TB, a ten-year strategy launched last year at the World Economic Forum by an international coalition of 500 governments, NGOs, private sector organizations, and others to cut the number of TB deaths in half by 2015. The bill would authorize $330 million for fiscal year 2008 and $450 million for fiscal year 2009 for foreign assistance programs that combat international TB. The bill also authorizes $70 million for FY08 and $100 million for FY09 for the Centers for Disease Control programs to combat international TB.  This funding increase is particularly important because of the recent outbreak of extremely drug-resistant TB (XDR-TB), a particularly virulent and lethal strain of tuberculosis which is resistant to many drugs used to combat TB. TB is an international problem. One-third of the world is infected with the bacteria that causes TB and an estimated 8.8 million individuals will develop active TB each year. Tuberculosis is a leading cause of death among women of reproductive age and of people who are HIV-positive. XDR-TB is particularly lethal. In one South African town, 53 TB patients were found to have XDR-TB. All but one died. TB is an issue in this country as well. California has more TB cases than any other state in the country. Ten of the top twenty U.S. metro areas for TB case rates are in California: San Francisco, San Jose, San Diego, Fresno, Los Angeles, Stockton, Sacramento, Ventura, Vallejo, and Oakland.  Earlier today, Senator Boxer held a news conference with international health experts to discuss the global issue of tuberculosis, and to explain this legislation.   