 Washington, DC â U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) today announced that the Agriculture appropriations bill passed by the Senate includes $37,199,000 for disease, pest control and research that will benefit California agriculture.    
Boxer said, âIn California, we take great pride in the productivity of our farmers and ranchers.  I am pleased that the Senate agreed to fund these efforts to combat threats to our products and help California farmers continue to thrive.â? 
Boxer obtained the $37,199,000 in funding through her request in the Agriculture appropriations bill.  The funding will be used for the following projects:    Pierceâs Disease Containment Funding: The bill includes $24,503,000 to contain the spread of the disease and the Glassy-Winged Sharpshooter, an insect which carries the bacterium that causes Pierceâs Disease.    Pierceâs Disease Research Funding: The bill includes $2,175,000 to fund studies at the University of California at Davis to address the effects of and ways to prevent the spread of Pierceâs Disease.    Winegrape Research: The bill includes $1,835,000 to fund competitive grants for unmet research needs of the winegrape and wine industry research at three major universities: the University of California at Davis, Cornell University and Pennsylvania State University.    Cotton Production: The bill includes $4,162,000 to help Californiaâs cotton farmers control and eradicate the Pink Bollworm, a pest that threatens cotton production.    Sudden Oak Death Syndrome Control: The bill includes $3,076,000 to detect, monitor, control and eradicate Sudden Oak Death Syndrome.    Sudden Oak Death Syndrome Research:  The bill includes $98,000 for the USDAâs research on the disease at the University of California at Davis.    UC Davis Center of Excellence: The bill includes $1,000,000 to create an FDA Center of Excellence at the University of California at Davis, an institution that will focus on research related to ensuring Californiaâs food safety from risks posed by imported agriculture, food borne diseases and terrorist attacks on the food supply.    West Nile Virus Mitigation Efforts: The bill includes $250,000 to  develop new ways of controlling the spread of invasive plant species Ludwigia, which damages waterways and can foster mosquito populations that carry the West Nile Virus.    California County Pest Detection Program:  The bill includes $100,000 for this program which detects and eradicates agricultural pests in California.   
The Agriculture appropriations bill includes funding for agriculture, rural development and the Food and Drug Administration.    
The House approved this appropriations bill in June.  The bill now goes to conference.  