 Los Angeles, CA â The following are selected excerpts of U.S. Senator Barbara Boxerâs remarks as prepared for delivery at Burbank City Hall today:      
âToday, I am announcing my opposition to the nomination of Judge Samuel Alito to the Supreme Court of the United States.â?    
âAfter reviewing the hearing record and the record of his statements, writings and rulings over the past 24 years, I am convinced that Judge Alito is the wrong person for this job.â?    
âThe right thing to do would have been to give us a justice in the mold of Justice OâConnor, and that is what the President should have done.â?    
âI am deeply concerned about how Justice Alito will impact the ability of other families to live the American dream â to be assured of privacy in their homes and their personal lives, to be secure in their neighborhoods, to have fair treatment in the workplace, and to have confidence that the power of the executive branch will be checked.â?    
âTo my mind, Judge Alitoâs ominous statements and narrow minded reasoning clearly signal a hostility to womenâs rights, and portend a move back toward the dark days when abortion was illegal in many states, and many women died as a result.  In the 21st century, it is astounding that a Supreme Court nominee would not view Roe v. Wade as settled law when its fundamental principle â a womanâs right to choose - has been reaffirmed many times since it was decided.â?    
âThe Administration is now asserting vast powers, including spying on American citizens without seeking warrants â in clear violation of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act â  violating international treaties, and ignoring laws that ban torture.  We need justices who will put a check on such overreaching by the executive, not rubberstamp it.  Judge Alitoâs record and his answers at the hearings raise very serious doubts about his commitment to being a strong check on an âimperial president.ââ?    
âDuring the hearings, we all felt great compassion for Mrs. Alito when she became emotional in reaction to the tough questions her husband faced in the Judiciary Committee.  Everyone in politics knows how hard it is for families when a loved one is asked tough questions. It is part of a difficult process, and whoever said politics is not for the faint of heart was right.â?    
âEmotions have run high during this process.  Thatâs understandable.  But I wish the press had focused more on the tears of those who will be affected if Judge Alito becomes Justice Alito and his out-of-the mainstream views prevail.â?    
âI worry about the tears of a worker who, having failed to get a promotion because of discrimination, is denied the opportunity to pursue her claim in court.â?    
âI worry about the tears of a mentally ill woman who is forced by law to tell her husband that she wants to terminate her pregnancy and is afraid that he will leave her or stop supporting her.â?    
âI worry about the tears of a young girl who is strip searched in her own home by police who have no valid warrant.â?    
âI worry about the tears of a mentally retarded man, who has been brutally assaulted in his workplace, when his claim of workplace harassment is dismissed by the court simply because his lawyer failed to file a well written brief on his behalf.â?    
âThese are real cases in which Judge Alito has spoken.  Fortunately, he did not prevail in these cases.  But if he goes to the Supreme Court, he will have a much more powerful voice - a radical voice that will replace a voice of moderation and balance.â?    
âPerhaps the most important statement Judge Alito made during the entire hearing process was when he told the Judiciary Committee that he expects to be the same kind of justice on the Supreme Court as he has been a judge on the Circuit Court.  That is precisely the problem.â?    
âHis opinions demonstrate neither the independence of mind nor the depth of heart that I believe we need in our Supreme Court justices, particularly at this crucial time in our nationâs history.â?    