 Los Angeles, California â In a second letter to the Iraq Study Group today, U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) again urged the Group to release its initial judgements on the Iraq war through an interim report, without consideration to the political calendar.    
In response to Boxerâs first letter, the Iraq Study Groupâs co-chairs, James Baker and Lee Hamilton, said that if they were to release their recommendations two weeks prior to the election, âour ability to seek consensus for the implementation of our recommendations would be greatly compromised by the heat of the political moment.â?    
Boxer points out in her letter today that even President Bush is not waiting until after the election to consider changes to our policy in Iraq, noting that the President met with his top military commanders this past weekend.    
Boxerâs letter to Baker and Hamilton follows.  Baker and Hamiltonâs Oct. 20th response to Boxerâs first letter is attached.   
October 24, 2006  The Honorable James A. Baker III    The Honorable Lee H. Hamilton    Co-Chairs    Iraq Study Group    1200 17th Street NW    Washington, DC 20036 Dear Secretary Baker and Congressman Hamilton:  Thank you for your prompt response to my letter of October 17 suggesting that the Iraq Study Group release its initial judgements through an interim report and without any consideration to the political calendar.  I appreciate that the Iraq Study Group is working expeditiously to complete a report that we all hope will be embraced in a bipartisan matter. And, I understand your argument that releasing any recommendations prior to the election may undermine their eventual implementation. However, I do not agree with that rationale.   The Iraq Study Group is contemplating important policy changes that could immediately begin to save lives in Iraq. Even if the Iraq Study Group has not yet achieved a final consensus on these policy changes, any idea that could save the life of just one American soldier in Iraq should be shared with the White House as soon as possible.  Over the weekend, President Bush met with his top military commanders to consider changes in U.S. strategy toward Iraq. He apparently isnât waiting until after the election. Clearly, it is time for the ten members of the Iraq Study Group to brief the President on its work thus far to formulate recommendations for a new course in Iraq.  As always, I remain in deep appreciation of your service to this nation and the important work being done by the Iraq Study Group.    Sincerely,   Barbara Boxer        United States Senator      