 Washington, D.C. â U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) today delivered the following remarks at a press conference on record high gasoline prices: 
Today, President Bush ordered the Justice Department to look for possible manipulation of gasoline prices.    
Well, I guess better late than never.      
Since the President now seems so interested in an investigation, he should instruct the Justice Department to work with the FTC on their investigation that Democrats put into the Energy Bill he signed last summer.      
The deadline for the FTCâs final report on their investigation is May 21, and we are anxiously awaiting it along with every other American who is just sick about paying $3 â and in some places in California, $4 â for a gallon of gasoline.        
Enough is enough.    
The oil companies say that gas prices are this high because of Katrina and unrest in the Middle East and supply and demand issues.      
But it is clear that they are lying.   If all the oil companies were doing was passing along the higher costs we wouldnât be seeing these record profits.      
In the fourth quarter of 2005, Chevron had profits of $4.1 billion.  BP had profits of $3.7 billion.  And Exxon had profits of $10.2 billion.  No wonder they could afford a $400 million retirement package for their former CEO Lee Raymond.      
There ought to be a windfall profit tax on him!    
The American people are being exploited by the oil companies and it has got to stop.  We either need a windfall profit tax or the FTC needs to order a disgorgement of profits, which it can do at any time.       
We need to be taking steps now to ease this tremendous burden and get off this need to fill our tanks every week.      
That means not just halting deposits to the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, which weâve been asking the President to do for some time, but also considering releasing some of our reserves to bring the American people some relief.      
We also all need to be taking steps to reduce our dependence on oil and increase investments in alternative fuels.  The federal government should be taking the lead on this issue.      
That is why I am introducing a bill later this week that would ensure that new cars purchased by the federal government for the federal fleet are the most fuel efficient.  My bill also gives states incentive to do the same.      
Last November, I was in San Francisco looking at some of the cityâs 800 alternative fuel cars and buses â itâs remarkable what theyâve been able to do there, and we should be striving for the same kind of fuel efficiency at the federal level.      
We all need to reduce our dependence on oil by driving more fuel efficient cars and conserving fuel.  With all of us working together, we can make a dent in high oil prices.  But there has to be more than words; there has to be action.   