 Washington, D.C.â Last night, the United States Senate passed the Assistance for Orphans and Other Vulnerable Children in Developing Countries Act sponsored by Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar (R-IN) and Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) to provide help to the worldâs most vulnerable children.    
"Children orphaned by HIV-AIDS often face the heartbreaking scenario of losing a parent to AIDS and then being left alone to suffer from extreme hunger, poverty and sickness," Boxer said.  "The United States can not stand by and allow these children to continue suffering - America can do better.  This legislation is an important first step in providing hope and relief to children orphaned by the AIDS epidemic." 
The Lugar-Boxer legislation, first introduced in the 108th Congress, would help those most vulnerable to the HIV-AIDS pandemic throughout the world in three key ways:    
First, the bill would authorize the President to provide assistance to orphans and other vulnerable children in the areas of basic care, HIV-AIDS treatment, school food programs, protection of inheritance rights, and education and employment training assistance. 
Second, this bill calls on the President to use U.S. foreign assistance to support programs that eliminate school fees that prevent children from attending school. 
Finally, the bill would require the President to develop and submit to Congress a strategy for coordinating, implementing, and monitoring assistance programs for orphans and vulnerable children, including measurable performance indicators to ensure that our policies are effective. 
It is estimated that 14 million children have lost either one or both parents to HIV-AIDS.  By the year 2010, it is estimated that this number will grow to 25 million.  The pandemic has created an orphans crisis, especially in sub-Saharan Africa where this crisis is most severe.    
"I am pleased the Senate passed this important bill to help bring relief to children orphaned by HIV-AIDS," Boxer said.  "I thank my colleague Senator Dick Lugar and Congresswoman Barbara Lee for their leadership on this issue." 
This Senate approved this legislation as passed by the House (H.R. 1409), which was introduced by Congresswoman Barbara Lee (D-CA).  The House passed the bill last week.  The bill will now go to President for his signature.    