 Washington, D.C.U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) today announced that the Senate Agriculture Committee included provisions she wrote to protect Californias farmers and ranchers in the Committee-passed Farm Bill.    Boxer said, I am pleased that the Agriculture and Finance Committees recognized the need to include provisions of my bills, the Pollinator Protection Act and the Early Pest Detection and Surveillance Act, in the Farm Bill.  This legislation will help protect Californias agricultural economy from harmful pests and diseases and keep our farmers competitive.   The version of Senator Boxers Pollinator Protection Act included in the Committee-passed bill authorizes up to $100 million over five years for high priority research dedicated to maintaining and protecting our honey bee and native pollinator populations.  There has been a loss of about 25 percent of the nations honey bee population, and it is estimated that crops nationwide that depend on a healthy honey and native bee population are valued near $18 billion.   Senator Boxer introduced the Pest Detection and Surveillance Act earlier this year to give USDA the authority to enter into cooperative funding agreements with States to enhance their pest detection and surveillance programs and increase inspections at domestic points of entry, implement pest trapping systems, and create pest eradication and prevention programs, among many other pest detection and surveillance initiatives.  The Finance Committees portion of the Farm Bill included $200 million over five years for these purposes.    I also want to thank Chairman Harkin for listening to concerns about the dangerous food inspection provision in the House version of the Farm Bill.  Following the recent E. coli outbreaks and food-borne illnesses, Congress should be working toward stricter food safety standards, not rolling back the federal governments crucial role in protecting our people, Boxer said.   Under current federal law, state inspected meat and poultry may only be sold within that particular state.  Any meat and poultry that crosses state lines must be certified by federal officials.  If the House-passed provision were to become law, meat and poultry plants could choose to forgo federal inspections in favor of more lax and uneven state-run inspectionsputting the health and safety of millions of Americans at risk.   The Farm Bill is expected to come before the full Senate soon.   ###   