 Washington, D.C.U.S. Senators Barbara Boxer (D-CA) and Joseph Lieberman (I-CT) today lauded the Defense Departments decision to accept 94 of the 95 recommendations made by the Defense Task Force on Mental Health and to move forward to create a culture that develops and supports a state of robust psychological health that is consistent across the Services.     Senator Boxer, who authored the law establishing the Task Force, said, This is an urgently needed step forwardby embracing the recommendations made by the Mental Health Task Force, the Pentagon is recognizing and accepting the importance of ensuring our Armed Forces are not just physically healthy, but also in good psychological health. Implementing these recommendations will save lives and help those suffering from mental illness.      Boxer continued, I will be working with the Pentagon to ensure they have the resources necessary to properly implement these recommendations in a timely manner.   The Mental Health Task Force report is groundbreaking and provides a Roadmap for the Department of Defense to provide high-quality psychological health services to all our soldiers and their families, Senator Lieberman said.   We have a responsibility to ensure that our troops  are both physically and psychologically healthy and the Departments decision to implement the recommendations of the Mental Health Task Force is a first step in fulfilling that responsibility. I look forward to continuing to work with Senator Boxer and the Department to make sure our service members and their families receive the care they need and deserve.   The DoD Task Force on Mental Health was established as part of the National Defense Authorization Act of 2006.  In June, the Task Force issued a final report of its findings and made 95 recommendations to Congress on how to improve mental health care services for members of our military and their families.  Senator Boxer and Senator Lieberman have filed an amendment to the Defense Authorization bill that would require the implementation of the Mental Health Task Force recommendations by May 31, 2008.   The recommendations include establishing a center of excellence for psychological health, building a psychological health leadership infrastructure, embedding psychological health professionals into line units, ensuring service members have access to mental health care within 7 days, and drastically increasing the amount of resources available for mental health services and care.     In its report to Congress today, the DoD said we are moving forward to create a culture that develops and support a state of robust psychological health that is consistent across the Services. This culture puts into practice the adage of sound mind and sound body.  This practice can only be accomplished when we put psychological health and fitness on an equal footing with physical health and fitness.   ###  