 Washington, D.C. - U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) today wrote to Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld to urge him to immediately appoint the Defense Task Force on Mental Health.  Secretary Rumsfeld missed the April 7, 2006 deadline mandated by the law.    
Following please find Senator Boxers letter to Secretary Rumsfeld: April 26, 2006 The Honorable Donald Rumsfeld    Secretary of Defense    1000 Defense Pentagon    Washington, DC 20301 Dear Secretary Rumsfeld: I am writing today to express my profound disappointment over your failure to meet the April 7, 2006 deadline for appointing the Defense Task Force on Mental Health, which was mandated by the National Defense Authorization Act of 2006. The Task Force was established to ensure that our service memberswho are making extraordinary sacrificesreceive the best possible mental health care and services.  Missing this deadline is both a violation of law and an unacceptable abdication of responsibility on a matter of urgent importance to our military service members, their families, and our country.  Almost every day, we hear stories of Iraq and Afghanistan veterans who are plagued by their experiences in combat. They face difficulties readjusting to life at home, suffer constant nightmares, unwanted war recollections, and often suffer from depression, and Post Traumatic Stress Disorder. My office has received many calls from service members who do not know where to turn and who fear being stigmatized for seeking mental health care. I have also received calls from military health care providers who worry that mentally ill service members are being returned to combat.       Tragically, the consequences have been even more devastating for some. Just yesterday, the Army announced that last years suicide rate was the highest since 1993. Eighty-three Army soldiers on active duty committed suicide, 25 while deployed to Iraq and Afghanistana 24 percent increase over the prior year. I can think of no more poignant and painful indication that we are falling short in our efforts. These numbers are a call to action that we must answer immediately. I am astonished that you would allow even one additional daylet alone nearly three weeksto pass before the Task Force begins its vitally important work. To ensure that our military personnel receive the care they deserve, it is time for you to comply with the law and formally appoint the Task Force members.  I look forward to your prompt response.   Sincerely,     Barbara Boxer    United States Senator   