 Washington, D.C. U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) today said she  is very pleased that the upcoming Coast Guard Reauthorization Bill will include  language that addresses her concerns about mothballed World War II vessels  rotting in the Suisun Bay. Boxer received a commitment from the  leadership of the U.S. Senate Commerce Committee last week to work with her on  the issue. Boxer  said, It is outrageous that these ships have  just been left to rot away in the Suisun Bay. But as much as I wanted them removed  yesterday, we need to be sure we arent causing more environmental damage in the  process. This language will help ensure that we are moving forward in the most  efficient, environmentally safe, and cost-effective manner possible. I want to  thank the Senate Commerce Committee and in particular, Senator Maria Cantwell,  for working with me to address this important issue in a way that respects  environmental laws.  There are  currently 73 deteriorating National Defense Reserve Fleet vessels that have been  rotting away in Suisun Bay,  California since the end of World  War II. More than two-thirds of those vessels are beyond repair and awaiting  disposal at sites around the country. Before the U.S. Maritime Administration  (MARAD) can transfer the ships to the recycling facilities, the Coast Guard  requires that the hulls be cleaned of any organic matter to ensure no invasive  species are transported to other waters. Unfortunately, during this cleaning  process, toxic paint flakes off the ships into the water, posing a serious  health and environmental risk to Suisun Bay and the surrounding community.   The  language included by Senator Boxer in the Coast Guard Reauthorization Bill  states that within 30 days after enactment, the Secretary of Transportation must  convene a working group, including senior representatives of MARAD, the Coast  Guard, EPA, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, and the U.S.  Navy, to review and make recommendations on environmental practices for the  storage and disposal of the vessels. The language also states that within 90  days after enactment, the Secretary of Transportation must submit a plan to the  Senate Commerce and EPW Committees, as well as the House Armed Services  Committee, on how to improve storage and disposal of the vessels in an  environmentally sensitive way. Finally, the bill requires that the relevant  federal agencies implement a disposal plan that is in accord with both federal  and state laws.  ###  