 Washington, DC - In response to continued high gas prices and the start of the summer driving season, U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) today re-introduced legislation to ease gas prices by ending market manipulation practices in the gasoline market.    
Boxerâs legislation would require the Federal Trade Commission to automatically investigate the gasoline market for manipulation when the average gasoline price in any State increases by 20 percent in a period of three months or less and remains at that level for 7 days or more.    
According to the Energy Information Administration (EIA), the cost of crude oil rose 10.8% from January 17 through April 11.   During the same time period, the average retail price of gasoline rose 24.9%.    
âSoaring gasoline prices across the country and especially in California are hurting our families â everyone is feeling the impact,â? Boxer said. âMeanwhile, oil companies have been pocketing increased profits.  My legislation would put rules in place to prevent market manipulation and provide accountability to consumers.â? 
Market manipulation would include any artificial manipulation of gasoline prices.  To determine the trigger of high gas prices, the FTC will use the U.S. Department of Energyâs Information Agencyâs pricing of regular grade gasoline.  A report would be due to Congress 14 days after the price trigger.    
Under the bill, the FTC would be required within two weeks of issuing the report to hold a public meeting to discuss their findings in the affected State.  If the findings indicate that there is market manipulation, the FTC would work with the stateâs Attorney General to determine the penalties.    
âBy requiring investigations into suspicious rises in gasoline prices,  I believe this legislation will shed light on market manipulations and help control gas prices,â? Boxer said.    
If the findings indicate that there is no market manipulation, then the Department of Energy must officially decide within two weeks if the Strategic Petroleum Reserve should be used in order to ease prices and stabilize supply.    
Boxer originally introduced this legislation in March 2003, when the price of gasoline was $2.15 per gallon in California.  Today, gasoline prices average $2.43 per gallon in California, 13 percent higher than when Boxer first offered the legislation.    
 