 Mr. President, California and the nation have lost a unique leader with the passing of former Congressman Ed Roybal.    
In 1922, Ed Roybal moved to Los Angeles from New Mexico with his parents.  He graduated from Roosevelt High School and attended UCLA before going off to fight in World War II.  When he returned from the war, he returned to Los Angeles and joined the Countyâs Department of Health Education in its County Tuberculosis and Health Association.    
In 1947, Ed Roybal decided to run for a seat on the Los Angeles City Council in a district that was remarkably diverse and included Boyle Heights, Bunker Hill, Civic Center, Chinatown, Little Tokyo, and the Central Avenue District.  Though he lost this race, he returned in 1949, winning in the same district.  In part, his victory was based on a well organized effort to register Latino voters in the district.    
With this victory, he became the first Latino to serve on the Los Angeles City Council since 1881.  He would serve on the Council until 1962, when he was elected to the United States Congress.    
When he took his seat in the House of Representatives in Washington, DC, Ed Roybal remembered his constituents and his roots.  He worked tirelessly to ensure that Latinos were represented and that their interests were not diluted by redistricting changes.  He often stood alone in these efforts.    
Ed Roybal was also a tireless advocate for the elderly, and the working poor.  He served as Chairman of both the Select Committee on Aging and the Subcommittee on Health and Long Term Care, guiding legislation on health care, Social Security, housing and human services.  He also helped to establish important programs in southern California, including scholarship programs at local colleges and universities.    
In 1992, Ed Roybal was fourth in seniority in the House of Representatives and known as a legislatorâs legislator, crafting and passing landmark legislation.  It was then that he opted for retirement, with his daughter, Lucille Roybal-Allard, running for and winning his seat.    
A generation of Latino leaders have followed in Ed Roybalâs steps, including his daughter.  It is very fitting that Congresswoman Roybal-Allardâs office can be found in the Edward R. Roybal Federal Building in downtown Los Angeles.  I ask you to join me in sending my deepest condolences to Congresswoman Roybal-Allard and her family on their personal loss.    
California and its leadership have undergone remarkable changes since Ed Roybal first ran and won a seat on the Los Angeles City Council in 1949 and was later elected to Congress in 1962.  Following his leadership and example, Latinos are represented in the Congress, in the state legislature and lead our most populous cities.  And people across our nation who depend on Social Security, who need medical care and who work for fair and representative elections can be grateful today for Ed Roybalâs vital service to our nation.   