 Washington, D.C. â U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) today introduced legislation to revitalize the 32-mile Los Angeles River for the benefit and enjoyment of the Los Angeles community.  Congresswoman Lucille Roybal-Allard (also D-CA) introduced companion legislation in the House.    
Senator Boxer said, âToday, when people look at the Los Angeles River, they see little more than a concrete canal.  However, just like the City of Los Angeles, I believe this river has a bright future.  This bill will provide essential federal resources to restore and revitalize the natural beauty that once was the LA River â and the recreational opportunities that came with it â for future generations.â? 
Congresswoman Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA-34) said: âIn working with our local partners, Iâve been pleased to have secured more than 4.5 million dollars in federal money to begin the revitalization of the LA River.  This legislation is a strong step forward in furthering our efforts to transform the River and its surroundings into a shared community space that all Angelenos can enjoy, while at the same time maintaining its critical function of flood control.â? 
The Los Angeles River Revitalization Act would do the following:    
 Requires the Army Corps of Engineers to develop a plan to restore river water flows and recreate river habitat. The plan will also provide for recreational opportunities, economic development, and improved flood control.   
 Provides funding for pilot projects that would begin immediately, including projects to remove graffiti from river walls, restore wetlands, and install new flood control systems.   Authorizes a water reuse project to aid in increased water flows and habitat restoration.   Senator Boxer visited the Los Angeles River last week to discuss plans for the revitalization project with city officials, including Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa, City Council President Eric Garcetti, City Councilman Ed Reyes and California State Parks Director Ruth Coleman. The legislation is widely supported by the Los Angeles Community.  