 Washington, DC  U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA), Chairman of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, today announced that the final Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) includes an authorization of $30 million for the construction of a comprehensive flood protection project on the Napa River in St. Helena, California. Boxer said, This project will provide flood protection for St. Helenas residents using a combination of both structural and natural flood control components. Rather than only fighting against Mother Nature, this innovative project works with the natural defenses that nature provides.   The St. Helena Flood Control Project is an important public works project to reduce flooding in winter months. The area is prone to floodingindeed, the St. Helena portion of the Napa River flooded in 1986, 1995, 1997 and 2006. This multi-purpose project will provide 100-year flood protection to the City by reconnecting the Napa River to its historic floodplain thereby avoiding the need for many large and expensive flood control structures. This plan also provides considerable benefits for the natural ecosystem and wildlife, including endangered species.   Boxer added: By reconnecting the Napa River to its natural flood plain, the project will both improve flood protection and restore the natural riverside habitat, improving conditions for salmon, trout, birds and other wildlife. St. Helena should be proud of the project it has helped to create to protect and serve its community.   Boxers provision requires the Army Corps of Engineers to review the Citys project plan and environmental reviews and, if the Corps determines it is feasible, authorize project construction. It also includes a provision allowing the City to be reimbursed for any funds it provides for the project that are beyond its legally required local cost share.   WRDA authorizes flood control, navigation, environmental restoration and other water projects across the country. The Senate and House conferees reached agreement this morning on the final bill. The conference report is expected to be filed in both chambers on Monday.    ###  