 Washington, D.C. â Today, U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) will personally deliver two letters to the Esperanza Incident Command Post in Beaumont, CA.    
The first letter to the crew and staff of the San Jacinto Ranger District expresses the Senatorâs sorrow about the four firefighters who died while bravely fighting the Esperanza Fire, and offers her prayers for the fifth firefighter who is struggling for his life.    
The second letter calls on Attorney General Alberto Gonzales to use all necessary resources to solve this horrific crime and punish the arsonists who committed it to the full extent of the law -- life imprisonment or death.    
Following is Senator Boxerâs letters to the crewmates of lost firefighters and to Attorney General Gonzales:   
October 27, 2006    
Fire Crew and Staff of the San Jacinto Ranger District  San Bernardino National Forest  Idyllwild, CA 92549    
Dear Firefighters:    
I am writing to express my deepest sorrow at the loss of your brave crewmates, who were lost yesterday during the Esperanza Fire.    
Even as heroic efforts continue to bring this blaze under control, my thoughts and prayers are with the families of Mark Loutzenhiser, Engine Captain; Jess McLean, Fire Engine Operator; Jason McKay, Assistant Fire Engine Operator and Firefighter Daniel Hoover-Najera, who were all lost.  I also send my thoughts and prayers to Firefighter Pablo Cerda, who was so seriously injured.  These fine men of Engine Crew #57 were fighting to protect life and property, and no more could be asked of anyone.    
I wish you all the strength necessary to get through this horrible time, and I hope that you will let me know if there is anything that I can do to help in any way.    
I am working to ensure you have all the equipment necessary to subdue the fire as well as to ensure those responsible pay the heaviest price for their despicable actions.  Sincerely,    
Barbara Boxer  United States Senator    
###    
October 27, 2006    
The Honorable Alberto R. Gonzales  Attorney General  United States Department of Justice  950 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W.  Washington, D.C.  20530    
Dear Attorney General Gonzales:    
I write to urge that you commit any and all necessary resources to your investigation of the arson fire in Riverside County, California, that has resulted in the deaths of four United States Forest Service firefighters.  I also ask that you commit appropriate federal resources to assist local and state authorities in their investigation of this horrific tragedy.    
The Riverside County fire has resulted in the deadliest wildfire disaster in the United States since 2001, which is all the more tragic because it appears to be the result of a despicable act of arson.    
I urge you to do everything in your power to bring the person or persons who perpetrated this crime to justice, including punishment to the full extent of federal law.  18 U.S.C. Â§ 1111 provides that the punishment for felony murder is death or life imprisonment.    
The families of the four fallen Forest Service firefighters â Mark Loutzenhiser, Jess McLean, Jason McKay, and Daniel Hoover-Najera â deserve nothing less than our immediate action to solve this treacherous crime.    
Sincerely,    
Barbara Boxer  United States Senator    
cc:   Deputy Attorney General Paul J. McNulty  Assistant Attorney General Alice S. Fisher (Criminal Division)  United States Attorney Debra Wong Yang  California Attorney General Bill Lockyer 
  