 Washington, D.C. â U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) today introduced legislation to help secure Americaâs commercial nuclear power plants by holding them to the same high security standards as government nuclear facilities.    
Boxer said, âNearly five years after September 11th, Americaâs commercial nuclear plants are still not secure.  Because commercial plants are required to meet lower security standards than government-run facilities, the nuclear material in these plants is more vulnerable to theft.  We must fix this unacceptable gap in our nationâs homeland security.â?  
The Secure Nuclear Facilities Act of 2006 would require commercial nuclear plants to defend against the same potential threats as government nuclear facilities.  Currently, commercial nuclear plant operators are only required to be able to defend the plant against certain types of direct attacks.  Yet government-run non-weapon nuclear facilities are required to defend against not only direct attacks, but also theft and diversion of nuclear material.   This legislation would make that requirement mandatory for all commercial facilities.    
Boxerâs legislation would also strengthen state and local respondersâ ability to aid nuclear plants in case of an attack by terrorists.  It provides grants to state and local responders to facilitate evacuations and medical treatment, as well as to improve communications capabilities between first responders and plant operators.    
The 9/11 Commission Report stated that nuclear power plants were among the targets considered in the original plan for the September 11, 2001 attacks.  Unfortunately, there are reports of nuclear plant operatorsâ failure to effectively address vital security issues, and the Nuclear Regulatory Commissionâs failure to hold them sufficiently accountable.    
Boxer said, âThere are currently 104 nuclear power plants licensed to operate in the United States, including 2 plants with 2 reactors each in California. These plants are potential targets for terrorists, and we are not doing enough to ensure they are protected.  This legislation is an important step towards securing our nuclear power plants.â?  