 Washington, DC -  After successfully including a salmon disaster assistance declaration in a major fisheries bill passed last week, U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) today joined Senators Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Ron Wyden (D-OR) and Gordon Smith (R-OR) to request immediate financial assistance for families and businesses hurting from the restricted salmon season off the California and Oregon coasts.    
Following please find the Senatorsâ letter to Senate Appropriations Committee Chairman Thad Cochran (R-MS) and Ranking Member Robert Byrd (D-WV).    
June 28, 2006    
The Honorable Thad Cochran  Chairman  Senate Appropriations Committee  S-128 Senate Office Building  Washington, DC 20510    
The Honorable Robert C. Byrd  Ranking Member  Senate Appropriations Committee  S-125A Senate Office Building  Washington, DC 20510    
Dear Chairman Cochran and Ranking Member Byrd:    
We are writing to seek your immediate assistance in providing disaster funds to the Oregon and California fishing communities that have been impacted by the restricted salmon season off of the West Coast.    
For the third consecutive year, the number of naturally spawning Klamath River Chinook salmon is expected to fall below the conservation floor called for in the fishery management plan for salmon.  As a result, the Pacific Fishery Management Council (the Council) was forced to consider a total closure of salmon fishing along 700 miles of the Oregon and California coastline.  The Council undertook a careful review of the stock status as well as the economic needs of local communities.  In April 2006, the Council recommended â and the Secretary of Commerce approved â the use of an emergency rule to allow for a very limited salmon season.    
The rule allows for limited recreational and commercial fishing in selected areas along the Oregon and California coast.  However, commercial salmon fishing will remain closed this season along more than 400 nautical miles, stretching from Florence, Oregon to Pigeon Point, California.  This is the largest fishery closure ever on the West Coast and is already having a devastating impact on our rural, coastal economies.  Over the last month, we have heard repeated accounts from our coastal communities of businesses closing and people missing mortgage, lease, and electricity payments.  Recently, the media began reporting on the negative effect the commercial closure has had on the recreational sector, since sportsmen are not booking fishing trips because of a misconception that the closure also applies to charter boats.    
It is estimated that the impact to Oregonâs and Californiaâs coastal communities could exceed $81 million.  Currently, the Department of Commerce is preparing an economic analysis of the closureâs impact to determine whether to declare a âfishery failureâ? under Magnuson-Stevens (16 U.S.C. 1861(a)).  However, based upon our conversations with the Department of Commerce, it is unlikely that NOAA Fisheries headquarters will issue a decision before the end of the salmon season.  Our coastal constituents cannot afford to wait until then.  The more time that passes without assistance, the greater the threat of permanent damage to our rural, coastal economies.    
Last week, the Senate passed legislation (Sec. 114(c) of S. 2012) that makes salmon fishermen and supporting businesses in Oregon and California eligible for direct assistance.  This is an important step toward bringing relief to our coast, but funding is still needed.  We request your help to provide immediate disaster relief to the affected communities in our states.  We understand that these are difficult budgetary times and are ready to work with the committee on all available options.    
Thank you for your time and consideration of our request.  Please do not hesitate to contact us with any questions or comments.    
Sincerely,    
Ron Wyden  United States Senate    
Gordon H. Smith  United States Senate    
Barbara Boxer  United States Senate    
Dianne Feinstein  United States Senate  