 Washington, D.C. B In response to the Administration창s failure to provide adequate funding to protect U.S. commercial aircraft from the threat of shoulder-fired missiles, U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) today called on Secretary of Homeland Security Michael Chertoff to act to protect U.S. aircraft and submit a report to Congress detailing the projected costs and potential deployment options for placing countermeasures on commercial aircraft.    
Following please find Senator Boxer창s letter to Secretary Chertoff: 
March 28, 2006  The Honorable Michael Chertoff     Secretary of Homeland Security    U.S. Department of Homeland Security    Washington, D.C. 20528 Dear Secretary Chertoff:  For more than three years, I have urged the Bush Administration to take action to protect our commercial aircraft from the threat of shoulder-fired missiles. These weapons, also known as Man-Portable Air Defense Systems (MANPADS), have been used by al Qaeda to target both commercial and U.S. military aircraft. More than 20 terrorist organizations and non-state groups are believed to possess shoulder-fired missiles.  As you know, the Department of Homeland Security창s Office of Science and Technology has conducted a two-year program to modify existing military countermeasures and adapt them for commercial use. This program has resulted in the development of two prototype countermeasures, both of which were successfully flight-tested last year.  This year, these two countermeasure systems will undergo live-fire testing and further evaluations to increase reliability and reduce operational costs. Countermeasures will also be installed on U.S. commercial cargo aircraft, which will show how these systems can be operated and maintained in a commercial environment.  In February, the Undersecretary for Science and Technology testified that DHS would provide a report to Congress by the end of this month detailing the projected costs and potential deployment options for placing countermeasures on commercial aircraft. It is important that this report be submitted this week so that Congress has time to address the Administration창s misguided and dangerous decision to cut the counter-MANPADS program from $107 million in FY06 to $4.9 million for FY07.   Having come this far to develop two capable countermeasure systems, it is important that we continue our efforts to protect commercial aircraft from shoulder-fired missiles. I look forward to hearing from you on this important matter.  Sincerely,    Barbara Boxer    United States Senator   