 San Francisco, CA - U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) today wrote to the Social Security Administration to urge that it not close its Western Addition Field Office in San Francisco.  The text of her letter follows. 
March 28, 2005 
Mr. Peter Spencer, Regional Commissioner Social Security AdministrationP.O. Box 4200Richmond, CA 94804     
Dear Mr. Spencer: 
I understand that the Social Security Administration is considering closing its Western Addition field office on Fillmore Street in San Francisco by April 30, 2005. I am informed that the agency is contemplating consolidating the services currently provided there with those at its downtown Civic Center field office on Market Street. 
I write to express my concern that closing the Western Addition office would be a serious hardship for residents of this historically underserved area. I urge you to leave the Western Addition office open in its full capacity. 
I understand that the Western Addition office serves more than two thousand seniors per month, a considerable number who would be impacted by an office closure. The Western Addition office serves an ethnically diverse population of elderly residents, some of whom are disabled. In addition, there are numerous senior centers and homes in the area that send their residents to the Western Addition office. If the office closed, many of these seniors would have difficulty traveling to the downtown office and would be burdened financially. The Western Addition is a low-income community and additional travel costs would be felt more keenly there than elsewhere. 
Social Security is one of the most successful programs for people in our nationâs history. We should not forget that Social Security is not just a retirement policy. It is a life insurance policy. It is a disability insurance policy. In order to be effective, it is important that our most vulnerable and frail seniors have easy access to Social Security services. 
The first page of your 2004 report, Results at the Social Security Administration: Getting It Done, says "The Agency has offices in approximately 1,500 communities, large and small, across the United Statesâ¦ But, as Commissioner Barnhart has said, the Agency 'will look beyond and behind the numbers and recognize that each number represents a person, someone whose life will be affected by the work that we do, and how well we do it.'" 
I hope the Agency will recognize the lives of more than 2,000 seniors who are served each month by the Western Addition office. I urge the Social Security Administration to keep the Western Addition Office open. Please provide me with an explanation of your plans for this office. I look forward to your prompt response and to working with you and your staff to preserve field offices. 
Sincerely,  Barbara Boxer  United States Senator  