 Washington, DCâU.S. Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) has reintroduced legislation to name the new Fresno federal courthouse for Senior U.S. District Judge Robert E. Coyle. 
"Judge Coyle has served the Eastern District  for many years.  He led the effort to build this new courthouse.  I am pleased to reintroduce this bill acknowledging his leadership and service." 
Since 1994, Senator Boxer led the effort to build a new federal courthouse in downtown Fresno, helping to revitalize the area.  The courthouse is under construction with a projected opening this summer. 
Senator Boxerâs Congressional Record Statement follows: 
Robert E. Coyle United States Courthouse 
Mrs. BOXER. Mr. President, I am pleased to introduce legislation to name the Federal courthouse building now being completed at Tulare and "O" Streets in downtown Fresno, CA the "Robert E. Coyle United States Courthouse." 
It is fitting that the Federal courthouse in Fresno be named for Senior U.S. District Judge Robert E. Coyle, who is greatly respected and admired for his work as a judge and for his foresight and persistence that contributed so much to the Fresno Courthouse project. Judge Coyle has been a leader in the effort to build a new courthouse in Fresno for more than a decade.  Indeed, he personally supervises this project.  He is often seen with his hard hat in hand, walking from his chambers to the new building to meet project staff. 
Judge Coyle, working with the Clerk of the United States District Court for the Eastern District, conceived and founded a program called ``Managing a Capitol Construction Program'' to help others understand the process of having a courthouse built. This Eastern District program was so well received by national court administrators that it is now a nationwide program run by Judge Coyle. 
In addition to meeting the needs of the court for additional space, the courthouse project has become a key element in the downtown revitalization of Fresno. Judge Coyle's efforts, and those in the community with whom he has worked, produced a major milestone when the groundbreaking for the new courthouse took place. 
Judge Coyle has had a distinguished career as an attorney and on the bench. Appointed to California's Eastern District bench by President Ronald Reagan in 1982, Judge Coyle has served as a judge for the Eastern District for 20 years, including 6 years as senior judge. Judge Coyle earned his law degree from the University of California, Hastings College of the Law in 1956. He then worked for Fresno County as a Deputy District Attorney before going into private practice in 1958 with McCormick, Barstow, Sheppard, Coyle & Wayte, where he remained until his appointment by President Reagan. 
Judge Coyle is very active in the community and has served in many judicial leadership positions, including: Chair of the Space and Security Committee; Chair of the Conference of the Chief District Judges of the Ninth Circuit; President of the Ninth Circuit District Judges Association; Member of the Board of Governors of the State Bar of California; and President of the Fresno County Bar. 
My hope is that, in addition to serving the people of the Eastern District as a courthouse, this building will stand as a reminder to the community and people of California of the dedicated work of Judge Robert E. Coyle.  