 Washington, D.C.â The U.S. Senate today passed a critical amendment by Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) that would place a one-year moratorium on the Environmental Protection Agencyâs use of human pesticide testing.    
Boxer offered her amendment in response to a Boxer-Waxman report that showed the EPA is reviewing more than twenty human pesticide studies that violated ethical, scientific and moral guidelines.  Some of the studies involved dosing of college students with a chemical warfare agent and the swallowing of pesticides every day for 28 days.    
In addition, Boxer was concerned by EPAâs new proposed human testing regulations which   would have permitted dangerous human pesticide testing on pregnant women, children and infants, and even refers to testing on desperately ill newborns.  Boxer called the proposed regulations, "rife with industry friendly loopholes, ethical lapses and questionable scientific method." 
Boxer said, "The moral and ethical issues surrounding these pesticide experiments are overwhelming â EPA should never have been considering them to begin with.  I hope they will use this next year to do the right thing and put in place the strictest standards on these pesticide experiments as recommended by the National Academy of Sciences and other widely accepted ethical guidelines." 
Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton (D-NY), a cosponsor of the bill said, "In disregarding standards for human testing, the EPA is putting our children at risk.  I am proud that the Senate agreed today that we need to put the brakes on this dangerous course. The Environmental Protection Agency must conduct and rely on safe, ethical tests to protect both the subjects of the tests and the integrity of the pesticide safety standards that protect our children." 
Earlier in the year, Boxer held up EPA Administrator Stephen Johnsonâs nomination until he cancelled a pending EPA program that would have paid parents to test pesticides on their babies.    
The Boxer amendment was passed by a vote of 60-37.  In May, the House approved an identical version of the Boxer amendment offered by Representative Hilda Solis.  