 Washington, D.C. - U.S. Senators Barbara Boxer (D-CA) and Olympia Snowe (R-ME) today announced that the Senate Commerce Committee will hold a hearing on Wednesday, April 11th to discuss the "Airline Passenger Bill of Rights Act of 2007," legislation they introduced to ensure that travelers are not unnecessarily trapped on airplanes or deprived of food, water or adequate restrooms.    
The hearing by the full committee is titled "Airline Service Improvements."  Boxer and Snowe requested the Commerce Committee hearing in late February in response to recent incidents where passengers were locked in grounded planes for up to 11 hours.    
Senator Boxer said, "I am pleased that the Commerce Committee is moving forward quickly to examine some of the recent incidents in air travel and what we can do to ensure the safety and well-being of travelers.  We all understand that delays happen in air travel, but no one should be held hostage on an airplane for hours without food, safe drinking water or functioning restrooms." 
Senator Snowe said, "This hearing will be vital as the Commerce Committee investigates the impact and possible solutions to the frustrating delays and cancellations that affect millions of Americans who depend on the airline industry for safe travel.  I look forward with Senator Boxer to this important hearing so that we can prevent the type of misery experienced by far too many passengers this past winter."  
The Boxer-Snowe legislation requires airlines to offer passengers the option of safely leaving a plane they have boarded once that plane has sat on the ground three hours after the plane door has closed.  This option would be provided every three hours that the plane continues to sit on the ground.    
The legislation also requires airlines to provide passengers with necessary services such as food, potable water and adequate restroom facilities while a plane is delayed on the ground.    
The legislation provides two exceptions to the three-hour option.  The pilot may decide to not allow passengers to deplane if he or she reasonably believes their safety or security would be at risk due to extreme weather or other emergencies.  Alternately, if the pilot reasonably determines that the flight will depart within 30 minutes after the three hour period, he or she can delay the deplaning option for an additional 30 minutes.     