 Washington,  D.C.  The U.S. Senate  Commerce Committee today passed the Coast Guard Reauthorization Bill, including  language by Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) that addresses her concerns about  mothballed World War II vessels rotting in the Suisun Bay. Boxer said, I want to see these rotting ships moved out of the  Bay, but first we need to make certain that we dont cause more environmental  damage in the process. This language will help ensure that we are moving  forward in the most efficient, environmentally safe, and cost-effective manner  possible. I want to thank the Senate Commerce Committee and in particular,  Senator Maria Cantwell, for working with me to address this important issue in a  way that respects environmental laws.   The language included by  Senator Boxer in the Coast Guard Reauthorization Bill states that within 30 days  after enactment, the Secretary of Transportation must convene a working group,  including senior representatives of MARAD, the Coast Guard, EPA, the National  Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, and the U.S. Navy, to review and make  recommendations on environmental practices for the storage and disposal of the  vessels.   The language also states  that within 90 days after enactment, the Secretary of Transportation must submit  a plan to the Senate Commerce and EPW Committees, as well as the House Armed  Services Committee, on how to improve storage and disposal of the vessels in an  environmentally sensitive way. Finally, the bill requires that the relevant  federal agencies implement a disposal plan that is in accord with both federal  and state laws.  There are currently 73  deteriorating National Defense Reserve Fleet vessels that have been rotting in  Suisun Bay, California since the end of World War II.  More than two-thirds of those vessels are beyond repair and awaiting disposal at  sites around the country. Before MARAD can transfer the ships to the recycling  facilities, the Coast Guard requires that the hulls be cleaned of any organic  matter to ensure no invasive species are transported to other waters.  Unfortunately, during this cleaning process, toxic paint flakes off the ships  into the water, posing a serious health and environmental risk to Suisun Bay and the surrounding community.    ###  