 Washington, DC - U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) this week urged the House and Senate Defense Committees to include her amendment to establish a Defense Task Force on Mental Health in the final versions of the Defense Appropriations and Authorizations bills.    
In a letter to the conferees, Boxer wrote, âThe war in Iraq is producing the greatest number of wounded and psychologically-impacted veterans since the Vietnam warâmen and women who will return to their communities forever changed.  This task force would examine what the Department of Defense is doing to address this challenge, and identify areas where it could be doing much better to ensure that our military personnel and veterans receive the best possible services and care.  Given the incredible sacrifice of our military service members and their families, we owe them no less.â? 
Following is the letter Senator Boxer sent to Senate Armed Services Committee Chairman John Warner (R-VA) and Ranking Member Carl Levin (D-MI).  Boxer sent similar letters to House Armed Services Committee Chairman Duncan Hunter (R-CA) and Ranking Member Ike Skelton (D-MO), Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman Ted Stevens (R-AK) and Ranking Member Daniel Inouye (D-HI), as well as House Defense Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman C. W. Bill Young (R-FL) and Ranking Member John Murtha (D-PA).    
December 1, 2005    
The Honorable John Warner				  Chairman						  Committee on Armed Services			              228 Russell						  Washington, DC 20510    
The Honorable Carl Levin  Ranking Member  Committee on Armed Services  228 Russell  Washington, DC 20510    
Dear Chairman Warner and Senator Levin,    
As you begin conference deliberations on the FY 2006 Department of Defense Authorization bill, I write to request that you maintain the Senate amendment to establish a Defense Task Force on Mental Health.  This is an extremely urgent and important initiative that will do a great deal to advance mental health care for our nationâs service members.    
The psychological cost of the war in Iraq is intensifying every day.  According to the results of the first comprehensive screening of Iraq war veteransâconducted by the Army Center for Health Promotion and Preventive Medicine and published in USA Todayâalmost 1,700 service members returning from the war this year said that they harbored thoughts of hurting themselves or that they would be better off dead.  More than 250 said that they had such thoughts âa lot.â?  Nearly 20,000 reported nightmares or unwanted war recollections; more than 3,700 said they had concerns that they might âhurt or lose controlâ? with someone else.    
I am particularly concerned about the alarming number of suicides among Iraq and Afghanistan veterans.  From 2003 to 2004, the Marine Corps experienced a 29% increase in suicidesâthe highest increase in at least a decade.  Most recently, the death of an Army Colonel in Iraq was determined by the Army to be a suicide.  These developments are extremely troubling, and portend potentially even more troubling times in the months and years to come if we do not act now to significantly enhance the mental health care for our military personnel and veterans.    
The Defense Task Force on Mental Health would be established with the primary purpose of developing a new âStrategic Planâ? for addressing mental health issues within the United States Armed Forces.  Comprised of representatives from each branch of the Armed Forces, a Veterans Affairs representative, a Health and Human Services representative, and mental health professionals from the private sector, the task force would examine, among other things: how well our existing programs work to prevent, identify, and treat mental health conditions; how best to reduce or eliminate barriers to care, including the stigma associated with seeking help for mental health related conditions; and how well the Department of Defense is providing outreach to military families who are dealing with service members with mental health problems.    
The war in Iraq is producing the greatest number of wounded and psychologically-impacted veterans since the Vietnam warâmen and women who will return to their communities forever changed.  This task force would examine what the Department of Defense is doing to address this challenge, and identify areas where it could be doing much better to ensure that our military personnel and our veterans receive the best possible services and care.  Given the incredible sacrifice of our military service members and their families, we owe them no less.    
For these reasons, it is imperative that the Mental Health Task Force amendment be included in the final bill.  Thank you so much for your help on this.    
Sincerely,    
Barbara Boxer  United States Senator  