 Washington, D.C. â In light of recent reports that the Bush Administration attempted to severely restrict NASAâs top climate scientist Dr. James E. Hansen from discussing his scientific findings on global warming, U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) today urged two Senate Committees to investigate the extent of the Administrationâs efforts to censor scientists for political purposes.    
Senator Boxer sent the following letters to Senate Environment and Public Works Committee Chairman James Inhofe (R-OK) and Ranking Member James Jeffords (I-VT), and Senate Commerce Committee Chairman Ted Stevens (R-AK) and Ranking Member Daniel Inouye (D-HI).  February 2, 2006 Senator James M. Inhofe     Chairman     Committee on Environment and Public Works    Washington, DC 20510 Senator James M. Jeffords    Ranking Member    Committee on Environment and Public Works    Washington, DC 20510 Dear Senators Inhofe and Jeffords: It has come to my attention that the director of NASAâs Goddard Institute for Space Studies, Dr. James E. Hansen, has had his public papers and statements on critical scientific matters severely restricted by Bush Administration officials. Considering the gravity of these allegations, I strongly urge you to hold a hearing to investigate these charges.  As you are aware, Dr. Hansen is the top climate scientist at NASA and he has a long and distinguished scientific career at that agency. It was recently reported that despite Dr. Hansenâs record of service, Bush Administration officials have interfered with his public statements, interview requests, and papers. In fact, as reported last week in the New York Times, Dr. Hansen stated that Administration officials warned him of âdire consequencesâ? should he continue to state his scientific findings on global warming. It is deeply disturbing to see any public servant of Dr. Hansenâs abilities and integrity apparently censored for political reasons. The issue of scientific integrity is the foundation of sound public policy. A key component of this is the free exchange of ideas and scientific knowledge. Public policy-makersâindeed, the American publicâmust have access to important scientific findings and analyses. Additionally, scientists need to know that their findings will not be stifled for political reasonsâor endanger their careers.  Given the critical importance of sound science to public policy-making, I respectfully request that you hold a hearing on the Administrationâs attempts to censor or limit the opinions of scientists. Such a hearing will help determine the extent of this problem.  Sincerely,   Barbara Boxer    United States Senator   February 2, 2006  Senator Ted Stevens     Chairman     Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation    Washington, DC 20510 Senator Daniel K. Inouye    Ranking Member    Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation    Washington, DC 20510 Dear Senators Stevens and Inouye: It has come to my attention that the director of NASAâs Goddard Institute for Space Studies, Dr. James E. Hansen, has had his public papers and statements on critical scientific matters severely restricted by Bush Administration officials. Considering the gravity of these allegations, I strongly urge you to hold a hearing to investigate these charges.  As you are aware, Dr. Hansen is the top climate scientist at NASA and he has a long and distinguished scientific career at that agency. It was recently reported that despite Dr. Hansenâs record of service, Bush Administration officials have interfered with his public statements, interview requests, and papers. In fact, as reported last week in the New York Times, Dr. Hansen stated that Administration officials warned him of âdire consequencesâ? should he continue to state his scientific findings on global warming. It is deeply disturbing to see any public servant of Dr. Hansenâs abilities and integrity apparently censored for political reasons. The issue of scientific integrity is the foundation of sound public policy. A key component of this is the free exchange of ideas and scientific knowledge. Public policy-makersâindeed, the American publicâmust have access to important scientific findings and analyses. Additionally, scientists need to know that their findings will not be stifled for political reasonsâor endanger their careers.  Given the critical importance of sound science to public policy-making, I respectfully request that you hold a hearing on the Administrationâs attempts to censor or limit the opinions of scientists. Such a hearing will help determine the extent of this problem.  Sincerely,   Barbara Boxer    United States Senator   