 Washington, D.C. - U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) today wrote to Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld to implore him to immediately appoint the Defense Task Force on Mental Health.  Senator Boxer wrote Secretary Rumsfeld last week to remind him that the Defense Department had missed the April 7th  deadline for appointing the Task Force.    
Following please find Senator Boxerâs letter to Secretary Rumsfeld: 
May 2, 2006   The Honorable Donald Rumsfeld    Secretary of Defense    1000 Defense Pentagon    Washington, DC 20301 Dear Secretary Rumsfeld: I am writing today to follow up on my letter of April 26, 2006 expressing grave concern over your failure to meet the April 7, 2006 deadline for appointing the Defense Task Force on Mental Health. To date, I have yet to receive a response. As you know, the Task Force was mandated by the National Defense Authorization Act of 2006 to conduct a thorough assessment of existing mental health policies and programs, and to make comprehensive recommendations on how they can be improved.  You are now twenty-five days past the date mandated by law for the appointment of the Task Forceâa reality that I find abhorrent. There is absolutely no excuse for your failure to execute your Congressionally-mandated responsibilities, particularly when the psychological costs of this war are so apparent for all to see.  According to a study by the Army Center for Health Promotion and Preventive Medicine, almost 1,700 servicemembers returning from the war in 2005 said that they harbored thoughts of hurting themselves or that they would be better off dead. More than 250 said that they had such thoughts âa lot.â? Nearly 20,000 reported nightmares or unwanted war recollections; more than 3,700 said they had concerns that they might âhurt or lose controlâ? with someone else.  And recently, the Army announced that last yearâs suicide rate was the highest since 1993. Eighty-three Army soldiers on active duty committed suicide, 25 while deployed to Iraq and Afghanistanâa 24 percent increase over the prior year. I find it simply astonishing that the sheer magnitude of the mental health crisis facing our Armed Forces does not compel you to action.  So again, I implore you to comply with the law and formally appoint the Task Force members. Our service men and women deserve no less.  I look forward to your prompt response.   Sincerely,    Barbara Boxer      United States Senator    