 San Francisco, CA â The following are U.S. Senator Barbara Boxerâs (D-CA) remarks as prepared for delivery at a press conference today in San Francisco:    
Today I want to discuss two foreign policy issues that weigh heavily upon me and, I know, weigh heavily on a great number of Californians.    
The two issues are Iraq and Darfur.    
Let me start with Darfur.    
The world knows genocide when it sees it, and America called the conflict in the Darfur region of Sudan genocide in September 2004 when Colin Powell gave testimony before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.    
Many of us have been calling on the President to name a special envoy to Darfur; someone who would focus like a laser beam on ending the killing and getting the countries of the world to live up to their financial promises to the refugees.    
That has not happened, but I am pleased that the Senate passed Senator Bidenâs amendment to do just that in the Supplemental Appropriations bill. In the meantime things are very bad in Darfur.    
A lack of funds for the 2.5 million displaced within Sudan or refugees living in Chad, means that they will be malnourished, particularly the children. This is a crime upon a crime.    
We need a fresh start...fresh energy to turn things around and to stop the mass killing of African ethnic groups by Arab militia.    
That is why I am today calling on President Bush to name Bernice King and Martin Luther King III as special emissaries, representing the President and all of us, in bringing hope to this human tragedy.    
I am joined in this recommendation by Senator Lisa Murkowski.  Therefore this is a bipartisan recommendation.    
I have had the privilege of speaking with the Kings and they are willing to put themselves on the line. Here is their letter which I will quote from:    
âAs you have noted, ending the genocide in the Darfur region is not just a political matter, it is also a moral oneâ¦we would be honored to serve in any meaningful capacity that would bring attention to this moral tragedy and contribute to a peaceful, non-violent resolution.â? 
I will also quote from our letter to the President.    
âTwo of Dr. Martin Luther Kingâs children, Bernice King and Martin Luther King III, have generously embraced the idea of serving your administration in a way that would heighten world-wide awareness of the tragedy, compel foreign governments to increase aid, and bring hope to those that are sufferingâ¦It is our hope that Bernice King and Martin Luther King III, as U.S. special emissaries,  can complement their important work by spreading the message of hope and non-violence that is synonymous with the King name.â? 
I am hopeful that the President will respond quickly to this idea. Bernice and Martin King are ready to help.    
Now let me discuss Iraq.    
Yesterday we commemorated Memorial Day, a day in which we think about the men and women who made the ultimate sacrifice for their country.    
Today, I am announcing that it is time to bring to a close a mission in Iraq in which our men and women in military have successfully met every single goal that was set out for them.    
Now it is up to the Iraqi people to decide what kind of future they want.    
My legislation is very close to the Murtha legislation in the House of Representatives in terms of its impact.    
It calls for U.S. forces in Iraq to be redeployed from Iraq within 6 months, or at the earliest practicable date.  And it calls for a quick-reaction U.S. force and an over-the-horizon presence of U.S. Marines who shall be deployed in the region.    
But the whereas clauses in my legislation are different from Congressman Murthaâs and reflect why I come to a similar conclusion as he does.    
I would like to read you the entire legislation.    
Before I do, I want to say that it is unacceptable for me to see us continue a policy that is bringing so much pain to so manyâour forces, 2,467 dead, their families, journalists and their families, and thousands of Iraqis and others. It is not acceptable to me to see our government paralyzed over a failed policy and unable to change it.    
When our President continues to say we will accept nothing less than full victory I no longer know what he means.    
Again, our troops have met every benchmark and it is time to end this open ended commitment which is causing not only death and destruction to our soldiers, our news people, and so many others but is acting as a catalyst for terrorist recruitment.    
Our troops are hurting, they often can't tell who the enemy is, they are coming home wounded in bodyâmore than 18,000 alreadyâand experts tell me than 1 out of 3 soldiers are suffering from some form of mental health problems, including Post Traumatic Stress Disorder.    
So here is my resolution:    
  109th Congress  2ndSession    
S. J. RES.    
To spur a political solution in Iraq and encourage Iraqis to provide for their own security through the redeployment of U.S. forces.    
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES    
Mrs. Boxer, introduced the following resolution; which was referred to the Committee on ________________________________    
JOINT RESOLUTION    
Whereas the Armed Forces of the United States have served bravely in Iraq and deserve the heartfelt support of our nation;    
Whereas more than 2,450 U.S. military personnel have been killed and more than 18,000 wounded in support of military operations in Iraq;    
Whereas more than 200 coalition personnel have been killed in support of military operations in Iraq;    
Whereas it is estimated that at least 40,000 Iraqis have been killed during the military intervention in Iraq;    
Whereas much of the intelligence used by the Bush Administration to justify the use of force in Iraq was either exaggerated or simply wrong;  Whereas President George W. Bush stated that the mission in Iraq was to rid it of weapons of mass destruction;    
Whereas weapons of mass destruction have not been found;    
Whereas President Bush then stated that the mission in Iraq was to end the regime of Saddam Hussein and free the Iraqi people;    
Whereas Saddam Hussein is in custody and standing trial for crimes against humanity;    
Whereas President Bush then stated that the mission in Iraq was to establish a free, self-governing, and democratic Iraq;    
Whereas Iraq elected its first permanent government on December 15, 2005, and Prime Minister Nouri al-Malikiâs cabinet has been approved by the Iraqi Parliament concluding the country's transition to full political sovereignty;    
Whereas President Bush then stated that the mission in Iraq was to train Iraqi security forces so they can do the fighting;    
Whereas the Pentagon reports that more than 240,000 Iraqi military and police personnel are now trained and equipped;    
Whereas on May 1, 2003, President Bush stood under a banner proclaiming âMission Accomplishedâ? and declared that Iraq was an ally of al-Qaeda;    
Whereas the 9/11 Commission Report found no collaborative operational relationship between Iraq and al Qaeda;    
Whereas the commander of the Multinational Forces-Iraq, General George Casey, testified before the Senate Committee on Armed Services on September 29, 2005, that â[i]ncreased coalition presence feeds the notion of occupation ... contributes to the dependency of Iraqi security forces on the coalition ... [and] ... extends the amount of time that it will take for Iraqi security forces to become self-reliantâ;    
Whereas, according to a January 2006 poll, 64 percent of Iraqis believe that crime and violent attacks will decrease when the United States redeploys from Iraq, 67 percent of Iraqis believe that their day-to-day security will increase if the U.S. redeploys from Iraq, and 73 percent of Iraqis believe that there will be greater cooperation among Iraqâs political factions when the United States redeploys from Iraq: Now, therefore, be it    
Resolved by the Senate and the House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled,  That â    
(1) United States forces in Iraq are to be redeployed from Iraq within 6 months or earlier if practicable.    
(2) A quick-reaction U.S. force and an over-the-horizon presence of U.S. Marines shall be deployed in the region.    
(3) Nothing in this resolution shall prohibit the use of U.S. military forces  to â    
(A) conduct targeted and specialized missions;    
(B) train Iraqi security forces in the region; and    
(C) protect U.S. personnel.  