 Washington, D.C. â The following are U.S. Senator Barbara Boxerâs (D-CA) remarks as prepared for delivery to Mobility 21âs 5th Annual Transportation Summit in Los Angeles today: 
I want to thank the LA Chamber, the LA County MTA, the Automobile Club of Southern California and everyone else who made this fifth annual conference possible.  Mobility 21 was created to bring people together to find solutions to our transportation challengesâ and your work could not be more important. We come together at a time when the Los Angeles area continues to be ranked the most congested region in the country, and five of the top 12 most congested urban areas are in California. It takes a toll on every aspect of our lives. Americans living in cities spend an average of 61 hours every year stalled in traffic instead of being with their families or at the movies. Itâs even worse in the Los Angeles region, where the average commuter spends 93 hours stuck in traffic. And the rush-hour commuter? 136 hours a yearâalmost six days. Congestion takes a toll on our economy, costing the U.S. a staggering $65 billion per year in lost productivity. And it takes a toll on our environment and health. Automobiles are one of the largest contributors to green house gas emissionsâsecond only to power plants. They are responsible for 30 percent of the pollution that causes climate change. And auto emissions can lead to asthma, heart disease and cancer. With the U.S. population now over 300 million and Californiaâs population predicted to reach 50 million by 2025, this situation will only get worse if we fail to act. So we must act â you know that and as your U.S. Senator, I know that. Today I will discuss steps we can take to meet our ever-growing transportation needs. Steps that will reduce congestion and improve our quality of life and our environment. And steps that will improve goods movement to make our ports, roads and rails safer, cleaner and more efficient so that our economy can grow.  As you may have noticed, we have an election coming up in eight daysânot that Iâm counting.  Depending on the results, I am in line to be either the ranking Democrat or the Chair of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee.  It will be the first time a Californian will help lead this committee toward a major transportation bill reauthorization.  And I look forward to working with all of you to fight for our state and help craft a new chapter in U.S. transportation policy.  Throughout our history, transportation has fueled Americaâs extraordinary economic growth, shaped our landscape, helped define our culture, and united our vast and diverse population.  In the earliest days of our Republic, people walked, or traveled by horse and buggy. Later our forefathers drove wagon trains along the Oregon Trail or towed barges along the Erie Canal.  Next came the golden age of railroads, the arrival of the automobile and the airplane. In 1956, President Eisenhower, through an act of Congress, created the Interstate Highway System, which brought unprecedented mobility and prosperity to post-war America, and nowhere more so than in the Los Angeles region. When Eisenhower reflected on his presidency, he said that âmore than any single action since the end of the war, [the interstate system] would change the face of America.â? After Ikeâs great leadership on roads, we all realized that we needed to take the next step. So in 1991, my late colleague, Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, who led the Democrats on the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, worked with Congressman Bob Roe of New Jersey to redesign the federal transportation program.  They had what was at the time a radical idea--intermodalism.  That bill--we all know it as âISTEAâ?--encouraged state and local transportation planners to think beyond highways. It increased funds federal funds for transit, and for the first time allowed federal investment in bike and pedestrian paths.  ISTEA sought to alleviate the environmental impacts of transportation and it broadened the planning process by giving major stakeholders and the public a seat at the table. Now, 50 years after President Eisenhower signed that seminal bill, we begin debate on the next transportation bill and, with it, the next chapter in U.S. transportation history.  Today, I want to lay out my three goals for that bill, which will need to pass in 2009.  My first goal, working with you and the California Delegation, is to secure enough funding to meet our needs for the next five- or six-year reauthorization.  The 2005 bill was a great success for us.  As a member of the conference committee, I was proud to help secure $21.6 billion in transportation funding for California, which will create over 700,000 jobs.  We will soon see the benefits of projects funded in that bill, as we add new HOV lanes on the 405â¦extend the Gold Line Eastside Light Rail from Union Station through Little Tokyo to East LAâ¦refurbish the Gerald Desmond Bridge at the Port of Long Beachâ¦and build the Santa Clarita Cross Valley Connector.  We also increased our stateâs return on the dollar to 92 percent, up from a low of 80.4 percent at the beginning of my Senate career.  If we look at the last three authorizations, overall federal transportation funding has grown at an impressive rate.  The highway program increased from $122 billion to $286 billion. And the transit program? From $31.5 billion to $55 billion.     But I donât want to sugar coat this: The future fight for resources will be harder than ever.  The fact is, the gas tax revenue that the highway trust fund relies on has not kept pace with transportation spending.  We will need to find additional funding dedicated to highways and transit. And, for that matter, additional allies.  This is one of those issues that is important to every Member of Congress. And so all of us need to form coalitions across the country and on both sides of the aisle if we are going to secure the resources necessary in the years ahead.  We donât have a choice. Not when more than 9.5 million Americans work in the transportation and goods movement sectors. Not when transportation represents 11 percent of our GDP.  A great economic powerhouse like the United States needs a transportation system that is second to none.  Now some say it will be impossible. But I say just compare what we need to make transportation a priority to what we are spending in Iraq -- $10 billion a month. For what we spend in Iraq in just one month, we could build all the railway grade crossings needed in Southern California, finish all the LA regionâs outstanding light rail projects and have enough left over to transform the regionâs bus service. For two-thirds of what we spend in Iraq each year, we could fully fund the federal transportation program for the entire U.S., without any gas tax revenues at all. Our country cannot afford to weaken our financial commitment to transportation--and neither can our state and it is a matter of having the right priorities. Letâs not forget that state matching funds are always required to get federal transportation dollars. That is one reason why it is so important that we pass Propositions 1A and 1B on next weekâs ballot. They will protect $2 billion per year in existing transportation funds and boost our stateâs investment in transportation by another $20 billion. That brings me to my second goal for the next transportation bill--to improve our quality of life and our environment by promoting mass transit and other alternatives to cars. Here in the Los Angeles region, that means securing funding for the Expo Line from Downtown to Culver City and Santa Monicaâ¦the Metro Gold Line Foothill extension, which will run from Pasadena to Montclairâ¦and finally getting the Red Line extension down Wilshire on track, so to speak. It means supporting the successful Bus Rapid Transit system. You took the initiative to build the Orange Line on your own, but we need more federal funding for Bus Rapid Transit and other bus money.  We should look at Traffic Management Systems, which employ detectors, cameras and other communications to monitor traffic, optimize signal timings, and increase the capacity of our highways.  We should look at peak pricing, which the ports of LA and Long Beach have used so successfully with the PierPASS program.  What happened when they started charging a modest fee for cargo movement at the port during the peak hours? Truck traffic during the day was cut by 60,000 trips per week. Congestion on local roads was dramatically reduced. Local air quality improved. And all of this happened without building costly new infrastructure. And we should do far more to get people out of their cars. âComplete streetsâ? are one example. This means including bike paths, sidewalks, and ramps for the disabled at the beginning of the planning processânot treating them as an afterthought.  Letâs face it: This is not just about the future of our roads, but also about the future of our children, who are suffering most from the obesity epidemic in America.  Not so long ago, more than two thirds of children traveled to school by foot or on bicycle. Now itâs less than 10 percent.  If we make walking and biking a more practical choice for all ages, we can combat congestion, improve air quality, and promote better health all at the same time.  Of course, no transportation plan would be complete without looking at the enormous impact of goods movement on Southern California.  My third goal for the next federal transportation bill is to put goods movement at its center. Forty percent of Americaâs imports arrive at the ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach. They generate more than 600,000 port-related jobs and are a vital part of our state and national economy. Of course, they also increase congestion and pollution, as trucks clog our highways and trains bring traffic to a stand-still at grade crossings. If we want to ensure that trains can speed to their destinations without causing accidents and delays, we must create a multi-billion dollar program to construct grade separations. This is not a local problem, and the federal government should not treat it that way.  The rest of the country reaps the benefits of goods shipped from our ports, and they too should share the burden of addressing this congestion problem.  If we donât, we risk losing business to our foreign competitors. We risk losing jobs and damaging our economy. As the Senate chair of the Congressional Goods Movement Caucus, I plan to work with my colleagues to ensure our nationâs major ports can continue to create jobs and economic growth, while operating cleanly, efficiently and safely. Securing the necessary federal commitment will be a heavy lift, and I donât intend to wait until 2009 to get started. I will need support from you as I begin to develop a comprehensive goods movement bill, and indeed on every other front. Nothing we are talking about today will come easy. We face a growing gap with our competitors in Europe and Asia who have made stronger commitments to technology and transportation alternatives. We face the mounting costs for the war in Iraq--nearly four hundred billion dollars and countingâ dollars that this country needs for transportation, for health care, for our veterans, for homeland security. And, as always, we face the status-quo champions who want to put off action until another dayâ¦and the nay-sayers who doubt that change is possible. You know, at the turn of the 20th century, Harperâs Weekly printed this prediction: âThe actual building of roads devoted to motor cars is not for the near future, in spite of many rumors to that effect.â? Well, they were proven wrong. But we simply canât afford to get it wrong because Californiansâand all Americans--are counting on us to get it right. We will fight for the funding that California and the nation need and deserve.  We will reduce congestion and improve our daily lives. We will clean up our air and help the fight against climate change. We will use goods movement to strengthen our economy and create new jobs. And, just like those who came before us, we will dream big enough and work hard enough to make California and our nation safer, healthier and more prosperous. I truly believe that by working together, as we have for so many years, we will do just that. Thank you.  