 Los Angeles, CA â U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) today announced that when the Senate returns to session and resumes consideration of the Defense Appropriations Bill, she will offer an amendment calling on the President to immediately appoint a new Secretary of Defense.    
Boxer said, âThis latest Rumsfeld rampage cannot stand.  By comparing critics of this Administrationâs policies in Iraq with those who wanted to appease fascism and Nazism in the run up to World War II, he is slandering the majority of the American people, who oppose the war in Iraq.â? 
Boxerâs sense of the Senate resolution also points out that Secretary Rumsfeld failed to adequately plan for post-war operations in Iraq, leading to widespread violence, the rise of sectarian militias, and the rapid growth of the insurgency.      
A number of retired generals who served our country with honor and distinction have called for Secretary Rumsfeldâs resignation over his mishandling of the Iraq war, including General Anthony Zinni, General Wesley Clark, Lieutenant General Greg Newbo ld, Major General John Batiste, Major General Charles Swannack Jr., Major General John Riggs, and Major General Paul Eaton, as well as numerous United States Senators.     
Boxer also commented today on President Bushâs speech in Utah this afternoon, saying âThis latest speech by the President was just a long repetition of old messages and rhetoric to scare the American people. The war in Iraq and the war on terror are not one and the sameâitâs time to stop scaring the American people and start protecting them.â? 
Attached is the text of Boxerâs sense of the Senate resolution on Secretary Rumsfeld: 
Expressing the sense of the Senate that the President of the United States should immediately appoint a new Secretary of Defense with the vision and leadership qualities necessary to lead the Department of Defense    
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES    
September XX, 2006    
RESOLUTION    
Expressing the sense of the Senate that the President should immediately appoint a new Secretary of Defense with the vision and leadership qualities necessary to lead the Department of Defense.    
Whereas, on August 29, 2006, Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld compared critics of the Administrationâs policies in Iraq with those who wanted to appease fascism and Nazism in the run up to World War II, and since critics of the Iraq war constitute a majority of Americans, these slanderous comments apply directly to the American people.      
Whereas, Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld failed to adequately plan for post-war operations in Iraq, leading to widespread violence, the rise of sectarian militias, and the rapid growth of the insurgency.  In 2003, the estimated number of insurgents stood at 3,000.  Today, it stands at approximately 20,000.     
Whereas, a number of retired generals who served our country with honor and distinction have called for Secretary Rumsfeldâs resignation over his mishandling of the Iraq war, including General Anthony Zinni, General Wesley Clark, Lieutenant General Greg Newbold, Major General John Batiste, Major General Charles Swannack Jr., Major General John Riggs, and Major General Paul Eaton, as well as numerous United States Senators.     
Whereas, Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld has not afforded the brave men and women serving in the Armed Forces of the United States the protections and respect they deserve, sending U.S. servicemembers into Iraq without adequate body and vehicle armor.  On December 8, 2004, Secretary Rumsfeld told a gathering of soldiers: âAs you know, you go to war with the Army you have.  They're not the Army you might want or wish to have at a later time.â?    
Whereas, Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld presided over the Pentagon during the Abu Ghraib prison abuse scandal, which diminished U.S. standing in the world and caused irreparable harm to the image of the U.S. military.     
Whereas, Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld twice offered his resignation to President George W. Bush in the wake of the Abu Ghraib prison abuse scandal.       
Whereas, U.S. military operations in Iraq have proven to be extremely costly in terms of both lives and treasure to the people of the United States.  As of August 31, 2006, 2,635 troops have lost their lives in Iraq and 19,773 have been wounded.  On September 30, 2006, the total cost of the Iraq war will reach $318.5 billion.     
Whereas, it is long past time that the United States needs renewed leadership at the Pentagon.    
Now, therefore, be it    
      Resolved, That--    
the Senate calls on the President to appoint a new Secretary with the vision and leadership qualities necessary to lead the Department of Defense.    
 