 Washington, DC â U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) issued the following statement on the passing of civil rights leader Coretta Scott King, the widow of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. 
The passing of Coretta Scott King â our connection to one of the greatest civil rights leaders â is a great loss for our nation.  She will be sorely missed, not just because she was a partner of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., but also because she was a fearless fighter for justice in her own right.    
From childhood, Coretta Scott King struggled against injustice.  Growing up in rural Alabama, Coretta Scott endured the extreme hardships of segregation in the South.  But through her strength and courage, she was able to overcome these obstacles and won scholarships to study music in Ohio and later in Boston.    
After she became an active member in the civil rights movement and married Martin Luther King Jr., her struggles against inequality continued often in the face of adversity and even danger.  One evening in 1956, while her husband was speaking at church, Mrs. King and her baby daughter narrowly escaped injury, even death, when a bomb was thrown into their family home in Montgomery.  This incident, however, did not deter Mrs. Kingâs commitment to the cause.  Instead, she continued alongside her husband, including the march from Montgomery to Selma, and beyond.    
Mrs. King continued on her march for justice even after an assassinâs bullet took her husband from her side.  She devoted her life to turning Dr. Kingâs dream of a more just America into a reality.  She led the successful campaign to make Dr. Kingâs birthday a national holiday.  She established a center in his name to promote hope, compassion and the practice of nonviolent protest in the quest for racial equality.  In the 1980s, Coretta Scott King embraced human rights causes and protested apartheid.  And she continued to inspire us into the new millennium.    
To honor the legacy of both Coretta and Dr. King, and to ensure that their dream does not fade, it is our duty to continue the march towards equality and human rights.   As Coretta Scott King once said, âStruggle is a never ending process. Freedom is never really won; you earn it and win it in every generation.â?  