 Washington, D.C. â The Democratic women Senatorsâ Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), Barbara Boxer (D-CA), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Patty Murray (D-Wash.), Blanche Lincoln (D-Ark.), Debbie Stabenow (D-Mich.), Hillary Clinton (D-NY), Maria Cantwell (D-Wash.), and Mary Landrieu (D-LA) â are united in their opposition to the nomination of Judge Samuel Alito to the U.S. Supreme Court.                                    
Below are quotes from the Democratic Women Senators:    
Mikulski said, âIn the end, I have too many doubts about what Judge Alito will mean for civil rights and constitutional liberties, caused by what he said - and even more by what he refused to say," said Senator Mikulski, Dean of the Senate Women. "I remain concerned that Judge Alito is out of the mainstream, that he is willing to say what he needs to get a job, that he is an ideologue, that his personal views will influence his decisions.â? 
Boxer said, âTo my mind, Judge Alitoâs ominous statements and narrow minded reasoning clearly signal a hostility to womenâs rights. In the 21st century, it is astounding that a Supreme Court nominee would not view Roe v. Wade as settled law when its fundamental principle â a womanâs right to choose - has been reaffirmed many times since it was decided. His opinions demonstrate neither the independence of mind nor the depth of heart that I believe we need in our Supreme Court justices, particularly at this crucial time in our nationâs history.â? 
Feinstein said, âBased on all of the information before me, I have decided to vote against Judge Alitoâs confirmation. Mine is a vote that is made with the belief that a personâs legal reasoning and judicial philosophy, especially at a time of crisis, at times of conflict, and at times of controversy, do mean a great deal. It is my belief that this nomineeâs legal philosophy and views will essentially swing the Court far out of the mainstream, toward legal philosophy and views that do not reflect the majority views of this country. And I am very concerned about the impact Judge Alito could have on womenâs rights, including a womanâs right to make certain reproductive choices as limited by State regulation.â? 
Murray said, âPersonally, I got involved in politics because of another Supreme Court nomination - that of Clarence Thomas. At the time, I was frustrated that average Americans did not have a voice in a process that affects them so much. I've worked to be the voice of working families in my state. I've asked the questions they would ask, and I'm voting to protect their interests. With our rights and freedoms on the line, I will not take a chance on Judge Alito because I have serious questions about his independence and commitment to protecting our rights and liberties.â? 
Lincoln said, âAfter thoroughly reviewing Judge Alitoâs record during his time on the federal bench, I am left with grave and serious concerns about his views on the power and scope of Executive Branch authority, discrimination against parents in the workplace, his general disposition toward cases involving civil rights, and his views on the scope of voter rights. Because of these concerns, I can not in good conscience support his nomination to the Supreme Court to replace Sandra Day OâConnor.â? 
Stabenow said, âIn case after case â a family losing their dairy farm, women making reproductive health decisions, workers losing their pensions, the strip search of a 10-year-old girl â Judge Alito spent 15 years tipping the scales of justice against the little guy. Because of his extreme record, Judge Alito is the wrong choice to replace Sandra Day OâConnor on the United States Supreme Court, where he could be making decisions impacting the rights of our children and grandchildren for the next 30 years.â? 
Clinton said, âThis is a vote of tremendous significance. History will show that Judge Alito's nomination is the tipping point against constitutionally-based freedoms and protections we cherish as individuals and as a nation. He would roll back decades of progress, and roll over when confronted with an administration too willing to play fast and loose with the rules. Because I do not think Judge Alito would advance the principles Americans hold most dear, I oppose his nomination and support efforts to block his confirmation.â? 
Cantwell said âI am very concerned with Judge Alito's record regarding an individual's constitutional right to privacy. While I do not expect any judicial nominee to prejudge future cases, I do expect all nominees to make their positions clear on protecting the most basic rights of individuals and the fundamental structure and foundations of our democracy. In the end, I cannot be sure that Judge Alito would do either. Judge Alito also has a record of concern when it comes to placing and consolidating the rights of the government over the rights of the individual and he has not provided the answers to adequately reassure the people of our nation. I must conclude that he would neither show due respect for the authority of Congress nor apply a necessary check to the reach of the executive. With great respect for the institution, I cannot vote to confirm Judge Alito to the Supreme Court of the United States.â? 
Landrieu said, âJudge Alitoâs record gives me cause for concern. And his testimony during the confirmation hearings unfortunately did very little to lessen that concern. His opinions and dissents on the bench leave open very serious questions as to how he views the individual rights of American citizens â especially when they are threatened by powerful forces, including the government itself. I have voted for conservative judges many times â John Roberts was the most recent â and was ready to do so again. But I expected a nominee who would serve to protect the fundamental civil rights of all Americans. I want my vote to help send a signal to all who care that the Supreme Court nomination process has become far too political and far too removed from the original purposes set forth by the framers of the Constitution. It is time for all of us, Republicans and Democrats, to stand up against a process that so poorly serves the people we represent.â?  