 Los Angeles, CaliforniaâU.S. Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) today sent the following letter to the Chair of the Federal Trade Commission, asking that the FTC thoroughly review Chevronâs recent acquisition of USA Petroleum Corp. assets, which include gas stations in California.    
  October 31, 2006    
Honorable Deborah Platt Majoras  Chairman  Federal Trade Commission  600 Pennsylvania Avenue N.W.  Washington, D.C.  20580    
Dear Chairman Majoras:    
I am writing to urge the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) to provide a thorough review of the recent purchase of USA Petroleum Corp. (USA) assets by Chevron Corp.    
The retail gas market in California is dominated by large branded refiners like Chevron.  Currently, Chevron and six other large refiners supply approximately 90% of retail gas to consumers in the state, either through retail stations owned by the refiners or supply contracts with other stations.  This means that large branded refiners have a significant effect on retail gas prices in California by virtue of their dominant position in the market.    
Independent unbranded gas retailers such as USA, on the other hand, comprise only 10% of the retail gas marketing California.  The presence of independent unbranded gas retailers, however, is important because they help maintain necessary price competition in the gas market.  Chevronâs acquisition of USAâs assets, including its California retail stations, could further diminish independent unbranded retailersâ market position and present potential anti-competitive effects for consumers, including higher retail prices.    
It is important that the FTC provide a thorough review of the Chevron-USA transaction, including its potential impact on the California retail gas market.  I look forward to hearing from you regarding the results of the FTC review.    
Sincerely,    
Barbara Boxer  United States Senator    
cc:  Pamela Jones Harbour, Commissioner  Jon Leibowitz, Commissioner  William E. Kovacic, Commissioner  	J. Thomas Rosch, Commissioner  