 Washington, DC â In response to concerns that Canadaâs recent positive cases of bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE) could negatively impact Americaâs beef industry, U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) and five of her Senate colleagues today urged Secretary of Agriculture Michael Johanns to explain the Administrationâs plans to address the situation.    
Following is the Senatorsâ letter to Secretary Johanns:  
August 3, 2006  The Honorable Michael Johanns     United States Department of Agriculture     1400 Independence Avenue SW     Washington, DC 20520      Dear Secretary Johanns:      We are writing in regards to the recent news that the Canadian government has confirmed its fourth positive case of bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE) this year, and that this particular case involved a cow born after Canada enacted certain BSE preventative feed measures. This news is of particular concern to the American beef industry, which is currently undertaking significant steps to improve the competitiveness of U.S. beef in foreign markets.   The unusually high number of BSE outbreaks in Canada this year raises serious questions about Canadian implementation of a 1997 ruminant-to-ruminant feed ban. Current U.S. import protocols allow some commingling of imported Canadian beef with domestic product, which could lead our trading partners to call into question the safety of our beef exports. As recently as 2003, U.S. beef exports were restricted in more than 50 countries when a Canadian-born cow with BSE was discovered in Washington State. All necessary steps must be taken to ensure this doesnât happen again.   We are encouraged by your July 13, 2006 pledge to send United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) inspectors to Canada to help thoroughly investigate this most recent case of BSE. However, the potential for negative economic impacts on beef producers throughout the country as a result of possible shortcomings in Canadaâs BSE policies may merit a more innovative response from USDA.  As USDA learns more about this recent case of BSE in Canada, please inform us of how your agency plans to address the situation.   Sincerely,     Senator Barbara Boxer  Senator Richard Durbin   Senator Dianne Feinstein Senator Byron L. Dorgan   Senator Kent Conrad Senator Russell D. Feingold    