 WASHINGTON, DC â The Bush Administration came under fire today from the California EPA, environmentalists and U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer for course particulate matter.  Senator Boxer issued the following statement:    
âIt is sadly ironic that on a day when the President is traveling the country extolling the virtues of science in the classroom, his Administration is continuing a persistent pattern of stripping science from the process of setting health and safety standards for the American people.    
âScientific recommendations should not be altered by political considerations in the rule making process.  And that is what the Bush Administrationâs Office of Management and Budget has done when proposing the standard that addresses hazardous dust, or so-called course particulate matter, in the air we breathe.    
âThe revelation that the OMB has intervened to gut the scientific recommendations is an outrage, but not surprising.â? 
Materials from todayâs Clean Air Scientific Advisory Committee (CASAC) Particulate Matter (PM) Review Panel materials can be found at: http://www.epa.gov/sab/panels/casacpmpanel.html  Cal EPAâs statement on this issue can be found at:  http://www.epa.gov/sab/pdf/casac_pmrp_02-03-06_pub_statement_ostro_cal_epaoehha.pdf   Attached is a letter to EPA Administrator Stephen Johnson.   Feb. 03, 2006    The Honorable Stephen Johnson   Administrator   Environmental Protection Agency   1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W.   Washington, DC   Dear Administrator Johnson:    I am writing to express my deep concerns about the legality and wisdom of EPAâs proposed rule regarding coarse particulate matter.  This unprecedented, scientifically unjustified approach would undermine the National Ambient Air Quality Standards for coarse particulate matter by effectively eliminating these health-based air standards in many rural areas.  EPA has proposed to exempt potentially dangerous sources of air pollution, such as mining and agricultural sources from this standard, and even from monitoring requirements.   Children and families in rural areas deserve the same protection from coarse particles as people in urban areas.  Such particles can include toxic and heavy metals and can cause significant health effects.  However, EPAâs proposal leaves rural communities potentially exposed to dangerous levels of coarse particles without people even knowing about the risks.  EPAâs failure protect rural communities is an appalling choice for a public health agency.      The Clean Air Act makes a fundamental distinction between setting the NAAQS and implementing pollution controls to ensure that air quality achieves the NAAQS.  For more than thirty years, the NAAQS have stood as a foundation of the Clean Air Act, designed to âprotect public healthâ? with âan adequate margin of safetyâ? using the âlatest scientific knowledgeâ?.  EPA must use scientific evidence on health effectsâbut may not consider costsâwhen establishing the NAAQS.  In contrast, EPA and the states may rely on economic and political factors when establishing pollution controls to achieve the NAAQS.  However, EPA disregards this distinction by exempting pollution sources from the determination of whether a public health threat exists.       EPAâs proposal âexcludes any ambient mix of PM 10-2.5 that is dominated by rural windblown dust and soils and PM generated by agricultural and mining sourcesâ? and states that âagricultural sources, mining sources and other similar sources of crustal material shall not be subject to control in meeting this standard.â?  EPA would also only monitor for PM 10-2.5 in areas âwith a population of at least 100,000 or moreâ¦â?       EPA admits that this proposal is unprecedented and fundamentally ârepresents a shift in the way in which PM indicators have been defined historically.â?  No previous NAAQS have excluded a set of sources.  Moreover, EPA has jumped the gun.  The legally-questionable exclusion of sources is an implementation issue.  EPA should not exclude sources of pollution when setting a health-based standard.  This exclusion also removes state and local flexibility for determining the right mix of pollution controls, and could unfairly burden other sources.   EPAâs unworkable and scientifically unjustified proposal is a grave concern to California.  Residents in areas of California, such as the Owens Valley region, which has four national parks, are threatened by particles that contain arsenic, sulfur and toxic metals.  EPAâs proposal could exclude federal protections for residents in the Salton Sea and Calexico regions of California. I am also deeply concerned that the rule could fail to protect public health in the San Joaquin Valley, a community that is working hard to increase protections against dangerous air pollution. According to the San Joaquin Valley Air District, EPAâs proposed standard could fail to protect one-half of the San Joaquin Valleyâs population from dangerous air pollution.    The Clean Air Act requires EPA to set the NAAQS with an âadequate margin of safety.â?  The Clean Air Scientific Advisory Committee notes specifically that âthe 2000 and 2003 Coachella Valley, CA studies from Ostro et al. showed significant adverse health effects, primarily involving exposures to coarse-mode particles arising from crustal sources.â? EPA proposes, in essence, to ignore these studies and exclude such pollution.     Reports from California EPA, among others, indicate that the Office of Management and Budget made changes to the proposal after a scientific peer review process that undermine health protections. These changes benefit mining and agricultural interests at the expense of public health.  According to these reports, OMB struck language from a November 23, 2005 draft that would have exempted only coarse particles that are ânot enriched with contaminants typical of urban sourcesâ? from the NAAQS.  OMB struck similar language throughout the proposal and made edits that highlight alleged scientific uncertainty over the health effects of coarse particles.  EPA must not allow OMB to taint scientific and public health decisions.     As a result of these revelations, we would like to ask EPA to provide all documents relating to EPAâs proposed standard for coarse particles that demonstrate, reflect or otherwise relate to contacts with parties outside the agency, including but not limited to the Office of Management and Budget, and representatives of mining and agricultural interests.  We would also like to see all dated drafts of the coarse PM proposal, including, but not limited to those that include discussion to exclude mining activities.  Please provide this information by February 24, 2006.    Protecting public health and sound science are the hallmarks of the NAAQS process.  Setting a NAAQS that only protects some areas, only controls some known sources of dangerous pollution, and that refuses to look for pollution in many areas threatens public health in rural communities. I am asking that you abandon this unsound proposal and instead protect all Americans from the known health risks of this dangerous form of air pollution.   Sincerely, Barbara Boxer    United States Senator