 Washington, D.C. 창 U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) today sent the following letter to Energy Secretary Samuel Bodman:    
  November 3, 2006    
Honorable Samuel Wright Bodman  Secretary of Energy  U.S. Department of Energy  1000 Independence Avenue, SW  Washington, DC 20585    
Dear Secretary Bodman:    
I am writing to request that you confirm some deeply disturbing information regarding the disposal of radioactive waste material from the Santa Susana Field Laboratory to the Kettleman Hills landfill in Kettleman City, California.  This landfill is not specifically designed to receive radioactive waste, and has apparently broken a pledge not to take this material.    
Unfortunately, this is not the first time that improper radioactive waste disposal has occurred in connection with the Santa Susana Field Laboratory.  Previously, radioactive waste from the Santa Susana Field Laboratory was shipped to the Buttonwillow landfill--another facility that was not designed to handle radioactive waste. This earlier incident generated a strong public reaction, including a 2002 Executive Order (EO D-62-02) signed by the Governor, placing limits on the disposal of radioactive waste.    
After the public outcry, the operators of the Buttonwillow and Kettleman Hills landfills pledged not to accept similar radioactive waste in the future.  If the Kettleman Hills landfill has now accepted radioactive waste material, its actions are inconsistent with the pledge by its operators to the local community and the intent of the Executive Order.  Furthermore, there has been no opportunity for public comment or participation in this matter.    
These allegations are particularly troubling given the findings of the Santa Susana Field Laboratory Advisory Panel in an October 2006 report that 창[t]hroughout its history the facility has shrouded its environmental problems behind a wall of secrecy.창?  This incident raises serious legal questions, including whether the Department of Energy is improperly deregulating the disposal of radioactive material.    
Please confirm the circumstances surrounding the recent radioactive waste disposal at the Kettleman Hills landfill, including a detailed summary of the facts and the Department of Energy창s role in this process.  Please also indicate how the Department of Energy will ensure that similar waste disposal practices do not occur in the future.  I request your reply by November 14, 2006.    
Sincerely,    
Barbara Boxer  United States Senator    
  