 Washington, DC â U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) today announced that the Agriculture appropriations bill conference report passed by the Senate includes $37,056,000 for disease, pest control and research that will benefit California agriculture.    
Boxer said, âCaliforniaâs agriculture is a vital part our stateâs economic well being.   We take great pride in the quality and bounty of our crops.  I am pleased that the Senate agreed to fund these efforts to combat threats to our products and help California farmers continue to thrive.â? 
Boxer obtained the funding through her requests in the Agriculture appropriations bill.  The funding will be used for the following:    
Pierceâs Disease Containment Funding: The bill includes $24,250,000 to contain the spread of the disease and the Glassy-Winged Sharpshooter, an insect which carries the bacterium that causes Pierceâs Disease in wine grapes and other fruits. 
Pierceâs Disease Research Funding: The bill includes $2,211,000 to fund studies at the University of California at Davis to address the effects of and ways to prevent the spread of Pierceâs Disease in wine grapes and other fruits. 
Wine Grape Research: The bill includes $2,100,000 to fund competitive grants for unmet research needs of the wine grape and wine industry research at three major universities: the University of California at Davis, Cornell University and Pennsylvania State University.  Californiaâs wine industry has an estimated $45 billion impact on the stateâs economy. 
Cotton Production: The bill includes $5,221,000 to help farmers control and eradicate the Pink Bollworm, a pest that threatens Californiaâs cotton production. 
Sudden Oak Death Syndrome Control: The bill includes $3,076,000 to detect, monitor, control and eradicate Sudden Oak Death Syndrome. 
Sudden Oak Death Syndrome Research:  The bill includes $98,000 for the USDAâs research on the disease at the University of California at Davis. 
West Nile Virus Mitigation Efforts: The bill includes $100,000 to  develop new ways of controlling the spread of invasive plant species Ludwigia, which damages waterways and can foster mosquito populations that carry the West Nile Virus. 
The Agriculture appropriations bill includes funding for agriculture, rural development and the Food and Drug Administration.  The bill now goes to the President for his signature.    