 Washington, D.C.â U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) today sent the following letter to the Secretary of Defense: 
August 4, 2006   The Honorable Donald Rumsfeld    Secretary of Defense    1000 Defense Pentagon    Washington, DC 20301 Dear Secretary Rumsfeld: Twice now I have written to you, Mr. Secretary, asking for the Administrationâs plan for our troops should the situation in Iraq deteriorate into a full-scale civil war. The responses I received from Undersecretary of Defense Eric Edelman and Deputy Secretary of Defense Gordon England stated that the only plan was to avoid civil war through the implementation of the so-called âNational Strategy for Victory in Iraqâ?âthe same strategy that the GAO has called inadequate and poorly planned.    
Yesterday, General John Abizaid solemnly told the Senate Armed Services Committee, âI believe that the sectarian violence is probably as bad as Iâve seen it, in Baghdad in particular, and that if not stopped, it is possible that Iraq could move towards civil war.â? General Peter Pace, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, went on to acknowledge to the Committee that there is a possibility of the situation in Iraq evolving into civil war and he did not anticipate this situation a year ago.    
This is on top of the fact that William Patey, Britainâs outgoing Ambassador to Iraq, is reported to have written in a confidential memo to British Prime Minister Tony Blair that âthe prospect of a low-intensity civil war and a de facto division of Iraq is probably more likely at this stage than a successful and substantial transition to a stable democracy.â?    
Mr. Secretary, it is long past time we had a plan for our troops if a full blown civil war erupts in Iraq. This plan is even more necessary in light of the fact that you are sending more troops to Baghdad. So again, I ask, what is your plan for our troops if a full blown civil war erupts in Iraq?  I look forward to your immediate response.      Sincerely,     Barbara Boxer         United States Senator     