 Washington, D.C.  â The following are U.S. Senator Barbara Boxerâs (D-CA) remarks as prepared for delivery at todayâs Senate Foreign Relations Committee Hearing on U.S.-India Atomic Energy Cooperation: 
Secretary Rice, thank you for your testimony.    
I share your view that a strong bilateral relationship with India is important.   India is a thriving democracy with a growing economy and developing closer ties between our two nations is something I strongly support.    
However, I do not share the view that closer U.S.-India ties will be a counterweight to China, which seems to be the unstated yet driving force behind this deal.  This type of thinking is not only outdated and dangerous, it flies in the face of reality.    
Last April, India and China signed 12 separate agreements on issues such as trade, security and transportation.  Indian and Chinese leaders have even declared 2006 as the year of âIndia-China friendship.â?    
Clearly, India has no interest in being a âhedgeâ? against China and it is naive to think otherwise.    
So efforts to improve U.S.-Indian relations as a stand alone policy not tied to the China card are to be supported, and I do not fault the Administration for seeking an agreement on nuclear cooperation with India.    
But such an agreement should be a win for our bilateral relationship as well as for nonproliferation.  This agreement does not meet that test.    
Secretary Rice, I have five areas of concern about this deal:    
First, it rewards a nation for not signing the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty.    
Second, it will give India the capability to produce more fissile material and more nuclear weapons than it otherwise could.    
Third, it requires a change in current law, which is a bad precedent.    
Fourth, the timing of the deal negatively impacts our policy toward Iran and North Korea.    
Fifth, the United States gave away more than it received.    
I want to expand on each of these points.    
First, this deal rewards India for not signing the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty of 1970.    
This treaty, known as the NPT, is the keystone of international nonproliferation efforts. Thanks to the NPT, more than 180 nations have not developed nuclear weapons.    
One of the great incentives of the NPT is that non-nuclear weapon nations are given access to civil nuclear assistance.  By allowing India to receive civil nuclear assistance while it continues production of nuclear weapons, India is being rewarded.    
Second, this deal will give India the capability to expand its arsenal of nuclear weapons.  While U.S. nuclear assistance will only be used for civil purposes, uranium fuel imports from the United States will allow India to dedicate more of its scarce indigenous uranium ore for military use.    
Experts believe that this deal could allow India to vastly increase its production of nuclear weapons from about six per year to about 50 a year.    
This could touch off an arms race in the region that would not be in any countryâs interest, including our own.    
Third, the draft legislation proposed by the Administration requests that Congress exempt the U.S. - India civil nuclear agreement â which has not yet been finalized â from several key sections of the Atomic Energy Act, including one that prohibits the export of nuclear material or technology to any non-nuclear-weapon state which has detonated a nuclear device.    
India needs an exemption because in 1974 it detonated a nuclear device â and did so by improperly using U.S. and Canadian civil nuclear technology.    
In addition, there is a troubling report that the Institute for Science and International Security has uncovered âa well-developed, active, and secret Indian program to outfit its uranium enrichment program and circumvent other countries' export control efforts.â?    
Fourth, the timing of this deal negatively impacts our policy on Iran.    
I understand that there is no comparison between India and Iran or India and North Korea.  But we still have to be consistent in terms of our policy.  Either we want to limit the spread of nuclear weapons or we donât.    
There is growing evidence that the timing of the U.S.-India agreement is complicating our efforts to pressure Iran.  Just last Wednesday, Germany's foreign minister said that the timing of the U.S.- Indian nuclear agreement was âcertainly not helpfulâ? to attempts to ensure that Iran does not develop a nuclear bomb.    
As the Los Angeles Times editorialized last month, âthe message to Iran, North Korea and other nuclear wannabes couldnât be clearer or more destructive.  These regimes and others will rightly conclude that the United States is interested in stopping the spread of nuclear know-how and technology only to regimes it dislikes...This undermines U.S. moral leadership on the single most dangerous threat to humankind: the spread of nuclear weapons.â?    
And now my final concern: the United States gave away more than we received in this deal.    
As former Senator Sam Nunn recently said, âIndia was a lot better negotiator than we were.â?    
Under this deal, India will be able to produce nuclear weapons while receiving all of the benefits of civil nuclear cooperation that non-nuclear weapon states enjoy under the NPT.    
To sum it up, this deal rewards India's illegitimate acquisition of nuclear weapons while placing into question our commitment to nonproliferation.  