 Washington, D.C. â The following are U.S. Senator Barbara Boxerâs (D-CA) remarks as prepared for the Senate Environment and Public Works hearing today on nominations: 
Mr. Chairman, we have today before us nominees for three important jobs:  Administrator, Federal Highway Administration; EPA Assistant Administrator for Prevention, Pesticides and Toxic Substances; and the EPA Assistant Administrator for the Office of Air and Radiation. We have only limited time today to question these nominees so I intend to submit questions for the record for each, including questions on human testing with pesticides. I ask unanimous consent that my questions and the nomineesâ answers be included in the record.     
Mr. Chairman, my time is shorter than I need today in part because there is a Foreign Relations Committee hearing that I must attend on the U.S./ India Nuclear Agreement. In light of that commitment, I want to focus my remarks today on the nominee who would lead the Office of Air and Radiation, Mr. Bill Wehrum.      
The job of ensuring that our air is safe to breathe is crucial to the health of the American people.  Every state faces challenges when it comes to air quality and I want to share with you a few of the reasons I am so concerned about where we are heading on this issue.      
Californians breathe some of the most toxic air in the nation.  According to a March 22, 2006 article in the Los Angeles Times, California is second only to New York when it comes to cancer risk posed by air pollution.  Another recent Los Angeles Times article on March 25, 2006 describes new scientific research showing that the number of deaths from breathing sooty smog in California may be twice as high as previously estimated. The current number of premature deaths due to air pollution related disease in California is 9,000 annually.    
We face increased risk of lung cancer, heart attacks, and other serious illnesses tied to fine particulates in the air. A doubling or tripling of premature deaths represents a lot of unnecessary suffering for the families in my State.    
Today, we are at a crossroads.  Do we continue to erode the gains and undermine the progress we have made on air pollution in this country?  One thing is clear, if we continue down the recent path and further roll back our progress on this critical issue, the public will pay the price.    
The nominee to lead the air program at EPA is extremely troubling to me. Mr. Wehrumâs record at EPA demonstrates a pattern of discounting health impacts, ignoring scientific findings, and substituting industry positions for the clear intent of Congress. I would like to briefly go through Mr. Wehrumâs record as one of the most senior political officials in the EPA air program to illustrate my concerns.     
Letâs start with the EPA Mercury Rule. Mercury is among other things a potent toxin on the human nervous system, and is especially dangerous to developing fetuses and young children.    
Common sense would dictate that every effort be made to limit human exposure to this toxic substance.  A look at comments by the former Chief of EPAâs own air enforcement division, a representative of the EPAâs Childrenâs Health Advisory Committee, and the EPA Inspector General on the Mercury Rule are more than troubling given Mr. Wehrumâs senior position and documented direct involvement in the rule.     
[Please view Chart 1 of the attached PDFâEPA Enforcement Chief Criticizes EPA for Failing to Rely on Science]    
[Please view Chart 2 of the attached PDF-EPA Mercury Rule Ignores Childrenâs Health]    
[Please view Chart 3 of the attached PDF-EPA Inspector General Critical of Proposed Mercury Rule]      
I also mentioned at the outset that fine particles are one of the most lethal forms of air pollution causing thousands of deaths in California. Mr. Wehrum was running the air program at EPA as Acting Assistant Administrator when the EPA particle rule proposal came out. Letâs look at what childrenâs health experts say about the rule.    
[Please view Chart 4 of the attached PDF-EPA Soot and Toxic Dust Standards Fail to Protect Childrenâs Health]    
Finally, letâs look at the recent New Source Review rule that was recently overturned in the DC Circuit. I signed on to an amicus brief with 10 colleagues in Congress because it was clear to us that EPA had overstepped its authority. [Please view Chart 5 of the attached PDF-Amicus Chart]. The Court was unanimous in its decision.     
[Please view Chart 6 of the attached PDF-Unanimous DC Circuit Panel Rejects EPA New Source Review Rule]    
So, I want to close by reminding all of us that we are at a crossroads. There is much at stake. We have a critical role and must provide advice and consent to the President on nominees.       
I think Mr. Wehrumâs record raises very troubling concerns. We must go down the right path when it comes to protecting the air we breathe. Mr. Wehrum has been on the wrong path and does not appear to be the right choice for this crucial position.    
Note: Attached please find Senator Boxer's charts.  