 Washington, D.C. â U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) today expressed disappointment in President Bushâs proposed Fiscal Year 2008 budget for failing to set the right priorities for the American people and obscuring the true costs of the war in Iraq.    
âThe Presidentâs war and Presidentâs tax cuts have made this budget ill-suited for Americaâs families,â? Boxer said.  âThe American people voted for change last November, but instead of listening to them, the President is giving us more of the sameâa blank check for this endless war and penny-pinching for critical domestic priorities like education, health care, energy independence, support for local law enforcement, and combating the threat of global warming.â? 
The following are some of the most notable shortcomings in the Presidentâs budget:    
No Child Left Behind  The Presidentâs budget underfunds the No Child Left Behind Act (NCLB) authorized level for FY2008 by $14.8 billion.  Under President Bushâs budget, the cumulative funding shortfall for NCLB programs since enactment of the law would rise to $70.9 billion.    
While proposing an important increase in Title I funding and for Pell Grants, the President has simultaneously proposed the elimination of 44 programs, including education technology grants, arts in education, school counseling, career and technical education, and safe and drug-free schools grants.    
Afterschool Programs  Senators Boxer and John Ensign (R-NV) wrote the afterschool portion of the No Child Left Behind Act which authorized $1.25 billion in funding for afterschool programs for fiscal year 2002 and an increase of $250 million in funding each year for the next five years, for a total of $2.5 billion in FY08.    
However, President Bushâs budget proposal fails to fully fund afterschool programs and continues to flat-fund afterschool at $981 million for FY08.  This shortfall leaves over 1.5 million children out of afterschool programs, including more than 271,500 children in California alone.      
âAs one of the authors of this successful program, it saddens me greatly to realize that President Bush is breaking his promise to our children by consistently flat funding a program that is proven to keep children safe, reduce crime and drug use, and improve academic performance,â? Boxer said.    
Head Start  The Presidentâs budget proposes cutting Head Start funding, from an estimated $6.89 billion in FY07, to $6.79 billion in FY08, a $100 million cut.  At current funding levels, the program serves only about one-half of eligible children.    
SCAAP   The Presidentâs budget again zeroes out funding for the State Criminal Alien Assistance Program (SCAAP), a formula grant program that helps states and localities pay for incarcerating undocumented criminals.  Congress has always added the funding back in -- an estimated $661 million in FY07.  California has historically received about 40 percent of SCAAP funding.    
Boxer said, âCalifornia shoulders a large part of the nationâs burden of incarcerating undocumented criminalsâwe must keep this important program adequately funded.â? 
Energy  The Presidentâs budget again neglects to fully fund all the renewable energy and energy efficiency programs authorized by the Energy Policy Act of 2005. An ongoing lack of funding is hindering the development of alternative energy sources like cellulosic ethanol, which holds great promise for California.    
The budget decreases funding for wind energy by almost nine percent, and solar energy saw no increase. As in his FY07 budget, the President again proposed no funding for geothermal energy.    
Arctic National Wildlife Refuge   Once again, the President continues to propose opening up America's Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, one of America's most pristine wildernesses, to oil drilling.    
Boxer said, âRather than continuing to push for drilling in ANWR, which will only waste countless hours of debate and won't solve our energy problems, we should be focused on investments in renewable energy sources and energy efficiency.â? 
Assistance to Firefighters Grants  The Presidentâs Budget again makes huge cuts to the Assistance to Firefighters program, which provides federal grants directly to local fire departments and Emergency Medical Services organizations to help address a variety of equipment, training, and other firefighter-related and EMS needs.  The Presidentâs budget proposes cutting the grant funding by more than 50 percent from what Congress appropriated in FY07 to just $287 million in FY08.    
Boxer said, âOur firefighters are on the front lines risking their lives every day to protect our communities.  Last year in California we lost 20 of our brave firefightersâwe must do everything we can to support their noble work and ensure they have the resources to keep our families safe.â? 
COPS  The Presidentâs budget again proposes eliminating the Community Oriented Policing Service (COPS) program, which is critical to California law enforcement agencies.  In 2006, California received $14.8 million in COPS funding.    
Agriculture  The Presidentâs budget continues to be out of step with the priorities of Californiaâs farm community.  The President proposes funding the Environmental Quality Incentives Program (EQIP) at $1 billion in FY08, $200 million less than what is authorized in the Farm Bill.  The President also proposes funding the key Market Access Program at $61 million in FY08, which is $139 million below the Farm Bill authorized level.    
The budget also cuts funding for Agricultural Research Serviceâs (ARS) food safety program by $10 million at a time when we need increased research to prevent future food-borne illness outbreaks.    
âThe days and weeks following the spinach recall showed us that there is still much to be done to protect our nationâs food supply.  Every step we take to protect public health and safety will also help safeguard against future losses and keep our economy strong,â? Boxer said.    
Urban Indian Health Program  The Presidentâs budget again proposes eliminating funding for the Urban Indian Health Program.  The elimination of this program will leave 430,000 eligible Indian users in 41 cities, including 9 cities in California, without direct access to health care.  Last year, Boxer led a bipartisan group of Senators in an effort to restore funding for UIHPs to the FY2006 enacted level of $32.7 million dollars.    
C-17s  The Presidentâs budget includes no funds for the additional procurement of C-17 aircraft,   which has been critical in airlifting troops and equipment during operations in Iraq and Afghanistan.    
Boxer said, âContinuing the production of these aircraft would not only ensure that America has the best airlifter in the world, but also ensure that the jobs of the thousands of Californians who work on C-17âs are not lost.  I will be working with my colleagues to see that the C-17 line is not shuttered.â? 
Medicare/Medicaid  The Presidentâs budget proposes slowing Medicare growth in the coming years by $78.6 million over five years.  Under this proposal, more Medicare beneficiaries would be forced to pay higher premiums, the inflation allowance paid to many providers would be cut, and payments to doctors would be reduced.  In California, hospitals alone face losses of around $4.5 billion from the Medicare and Medicaid proposals.    
Flood Control Projects  The Presidentâs budget proposes cutting funding for the American River Watershed Project from $46.8 million in FY07 to $36.5 million in FY08, a reduction of $10.3 million.    
The Presidentâs budget proposes cutting funding for Napa River Flood Control from $9 million in FY07 to $7.5 million in FY08, a $1.5 million cut.    
However, the Presidentâs budget does propose an important funding increase for the Sacramento River Bank Protection Project, from $10.96 million in FY07 to $21.53 million in FY08.  The President also proposes a modest increase in funding for the South Sacramento Streams Project, from $7.3 million in FY07 to $8 million in FY08.    
Community Development Block Grants  The President's budget proposes cutting the Community Development Block Grant Program (CDBG), which helps addresses local housing, neighborhood revitalization, public services, and the infrastructure needs of Californiaâs cities and local communities.  Under the Presidentâs budget, Californiaâs CDBG funding is being reduced by $139.6 million from its 2006 funding level of $474.3 million.  