 Washington, DC  U.S. Senators Barbara Boxer and Dianne Feinstein  (both D-CA) today introduced two pieces of legislation aimed at preventing oil  spills like the one that resulted after the Cosco Busan struck a bridge piling  on November 7th, spilling more than 58,000 gallons of toxic bunker  fuel into the San  Francisco Bay. The Boxer-Feinstein Maritime Emergency Prevention Act  aims to improve the safety of ships in and around our nations ports by  strengthening the authority and the resources of the Coast Guards Vessel  Traffic Service (VTS). This bill ensures that the Coast Guard has the authority  to order ships to change speed or course in an emergency or during hazardous  conditions.  The measure also authorizes $20 million in funding for  the Coast Guard to upgrade VTS technology, and would, where necessary, require  pilots to have their own navigational laptop computers.   Boxer said, If the  Coast Guard VTS sees a ship like the Cosco Busan, headed in the wrong direction  and traveling too fast, they should have the authority to intervene. Were  talking about situations where seconds and minutes can make all of the  difference in the worldthere isnt time for second-guessing and  ambiguity. Feinstein said, This  legislation makes it clear that the Coast Guard has the authority to intervene  if a ship is in imminent danger or distress. Therefore, there is no doubt that  the captain of a port can stop a ship in the event of an  emergency. Senators Boxer and Feinstein also introduced the Oil  Spill Accountability Act, legislation designed to reduce the risk of oil spills  and increase the incentive for making cargo ships  safer. Following the Exxon Valdez disaster in 1989, Congress  created the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund and established liability limits for  cleanup costs and other damages. The caps were set at $1,900/gross ton for  double-hulled tankers and $3,000/gross ton for single-hulled tankers. For cargo  ships, there was a single, much lower cap of $950 per gross  ton. Since that time, cargo ships have significantly  increased in size and the amount of fuel they carry, now posing similar  environmental risks as oil tankers.  The Boxer-Feinstein legislation would raise the  liability limits for cargo ships to the same level as oil tankers, providing new  incentive to use double-hulled ships. ###  