 Washington, D.C. - Today, U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) and Congresswoman Hilda L. Solis (CA-32), introduced the California Wild Heritage Act of 2007, legislation that would protect over 2.4 million acres of federal public lands in California. "I am excited to build on last year's successes and continue efforts to preserve even more of California's magnificent wild lands for future generations," Boxer said.  "These places are the natural treasure of California."   The California Wild Heritage Act protects these places by designating public lands owned by the American people as "wilderness" - the highest level of protection in federal law - and segments of California rivers as "wild and scenic."  These areas would remain open for recreational activities such as horseback riding, fishing, hunting, hiking, backpacking, rock climbing and canoeing.  It would also protect vital watersheds in our national forests, which are a source of California's drinking water supply.  In addition, the bill would help protect vulnerable ecosystems and threatened species of plants and animals, such as salmon and trout. "As our nation continues to develop, it is critical that we preserve our natural and cultural heritage for future generations," said Congresswoman Solis. "I am proud that this legislation will preserve wilderness and other green spaces, providing healthy refuges for families to enjoy the outdoors and exercise. This bill will help ensure that we don't look around one day and realize that all we have is concrete buildings, super highways, and poor health."   Sen. Boxer plans to continue her successful strategy of working district by district with members of the House of Representatives.  In particular, she plans to continue the efforts begun last year with Rep. Howard P. "Buck" McKeon (R-CA) in the Eastern Sierra Nevada and desert portions of his district.  Boxer also plans to work with Rep. Mary Bono (CA-45) to protect California's desert. "Last year we proved that protecting wilderness is a bipartisan issue.  This year, I want to continue that bipartisan effort by working with Representatives McKeon and Bono to protect California's spectacular Eastern Sierra and vast desert treasures.  Today's legislation represents only the first step in that effort this Congress," Boxer said.    The legislation was developed after years of consultation with local communities, elected officials, recreation organizations, businesses, federal and state agencies and local property owners.  					  Last year, Sen. Boxer's Northern California Coastal Wild Heritage Wilderness Act, which designated over 273,000 acres of public land in Del Norte, Humboldt, Lake, Mendocino, and Napa Counties as wilderness, was enacted into law.  