 WASHINGTON, DC â U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) assailed the Bush budget today as a failure to make the health and safety of Americans a serious priority because it cuts overall funding for environmental programs by 13 percent or $4.25 billion.  âThe Presidentâs budget is an unprecedented assault on our nationâs land, water and air,â? Boxer said.    
EPA - Cut by 4 percent, or $300 million.  âCommunities across the country will feel the impact of this cut,â? Boxer said.  âIt could mean weaker enforcement against polluters and less funding for hazardous waste, air and water quality measures.  At the Environment and Public Works Committee hearing expected next week, I plan to ask Administrator Johnson why this budget shortchanges the health and safety of the American people.â? 
Clean Water State Revolving Fund â Cut by $200 million.  This fund helps states pay for water quality and waste water systems.    
State and Local Air Pollution Control Agencies and Regional Planning Agencies â Cut by $35 million.  These are federal grants for state and local agencies to prevent and control air pollution.      
Failed Clear Skies Initiative Revisited â The Bush Administration called for passage of its Clear Skies Initiative, which would weaken the Clean Air Actâs protections against air pollution.      
Superfund â Once again the Bush Administration has disregarded the needs of the Superfund program, cutting funds for cleanup at the nation's most heavily contaminated sites. The budget documents are unfortunately merely smoke and mirrors.  This budget lumps Superfund in with other programs to disguise this shortfall.  The Administration's claimed increase in the Superfund budget of $17 million is misleading because the toxic waste cleanup programs that protect public health are cut and, to push the budget numbers higher, homeland security/weapons of mass destruction programs, among others, are included.  These additional programs are worthy of support, but no one should miss the reality of the Superfund cuts.  EPA continues to project just 40 cleanups for FY07, half the rate of cleanup compared to what was achieved under the Clinton Administration.    The Superfund Emergency Response program is cut by $1,185,000  (EPA congressional justification document, Superfund program p. 87).  This program responds to emergency environmental threats from chemical, biological, and radiological incidents, as well as natural disasters like Katrina.  The Superfund Emergency Response program is cut by $1,185,000  (EPA congressional justification document, Superfund program p. 87).  This program responds to emergency environmental threats from chemical, biological, and radiological incidents, as well as natural disasters like Katrina.  The Superfund Emergency Response program is cut by $1,185,000  (EPA congressional justification document, Superfund program p. 87).  This program responds to emergency environmental threats from chemical, biological, and radiological incidents, as well as natural disasters like Katrina.   OTHER FEDERAL PROGRAMS Arctic National Wildlife Refuge.  The President continues to propose opening up America's Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, one of America's - indeed, the world's - most pristine wildernesses, to oil drilling (Department of the Interior, Budget in Brief; pp. DO-17, DH-43).    
National Parks.  The Budget cuts $100.5 million from the National Parks Service â funding that is critical for land acquisitions and recreation and preservation programs (Department of the Interior, Budget in Brief; pp. BH-68, BH-72).    
Oceans Protection.  The Budget cuts $138 million from critical oceans programs â funding very important to California - including oil spill response, monitoring of coastal health, and marine sanctuaries (National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Budget, p. 220).      
#   #   #    
U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer is the Ranking Member of the Senate Environment and Public Works subcommittee on Superfund and Waste Management.    