 WASHINGTON D.C.  U.S. Senators Barbara Boxer (D-California) and Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) have called on President George Bush to take immediate action to prepare and submit a required report to Congress on expanding eligibility for the Purple Heart. In a letter sent March 2nd to the President, Senators Boxer and Snowe cited the March 1, 2007 deadline mandated by Sec. 556 of the National Defense Authorization Act of 2007 for the submission of a formal report to Congress, and expressed their disappointment in the failure of the Administration to meet the deadline.  The families of Americas greatest heroes deserve to know that their loved ones will be honored and remembered for their sacrifice, said Senator Boxer. The failure to recognize thousands of Prisoners of War with a Purple Heart is regrettable. President Bush must act now to correct this injustice, but until he does, I will continue to work with Senator Snowe and others to give our fallen soldiers the recognition they have earned. The service of our brave men and women in uniform must never be forgotten, and paying tribute to those wounded in action is a cherished and time honored tradition, Snowe said. It is fitting and proper that eligibility for recognition through the Purple Heart be expanded to include those courageous service members who have suffered injury and death as prisoners of war. I am disappointed the Administration has so far failed to recognize the significance of this issue, and will continue to work to bring peace of mind to the thousands of veterans families whose lives were forever affected by their time in captivity. Section 556 of the National Defense Authorization Act of 2007, originally introduced by Senators Snowe and Boxer in June of 2006, specifically calls on the President to submit a report to Congress on expanding eligibility for the Purple Heart to include all those who die in a prisoner of war campincluding those who cause of death is unknownand those who die shortly after internment from disease or disability incurred during their time in captivity. Currently, only prisoners of war who die during their imprisonment of wounds inflicted by an instrument of war, such as a gunshot wound or intentional poisoning, are eligible for posthumous Purple Heart recognition. Those who die of starvation, disease, or other causes during captivity are not eligible. Approximately 17,000 prisoners of war have died while in captivity since December 7, 1941  the start of World War II. More than 8,100 Korean War servicemen and more than 1,800 Americans remain unaccounted for from the Vietnam War.   The following is text of the letter sent to President Bush: March 2, 2007 The President    The White House    1600 Pennsylvania Avenue    Washington, DC 20500b  Dear Mr. President: We are writing today to express our concern over your failure to meet the March 1, 2007 deadline mandated by Sec. 556 of the National Defense Authorization Act of 2007 for the submission of a report to Congress on expanding eligibility for the Purple Heart. Sec. 556 specifically requires that you make a determination as to whether the criteria for the award of the Purple Heart should be modified to include all those who die in a prisoner of war campincluding those who cause of death is unknownand those who die shortly after internment from disease or disability incurred during their time in captivity. We would also like to note that Sec. 556 requires you to take into account the views of the veterans service organizations, including the Military Order of the Purple Heart. Under current law, only prisoners of war who die during their imprisonment of wounds inflicted by an instrument of warsuch as a gunshot wound or intentional poisoningare eligible for posthumous Purple Heart recognition. Those who die of starvation, disease, or other causes during captivity are not. This is an injustice to the thousands of POWs who endured tremendous suffering at the hands of their captors and paid the ultimate price in service to our nation.  We are disappointed over the failure to meet the deadline mandated by Sec. 556, and request the prompt submission of the report. The families of our nations greatest heroes deserve to know that their loved ones have not been forgotten and are remembered and honored by a grateful nation. We look forward to your prompt response.    Sincerely,    Barbara Boxer      United States Senator      Olympia Snowe      United States Senator     