 Washington, D.C. - Mr. Chairman, as Members of the Environment and Public Works Committee, we will play a central role in the oversight process that must be conducted in the wake of Hurricane Katrina.     
Our Committee must help ensure that the Gulf region is rebuilt in a truly safe and healthy manner.  To find the right solutions, we must have the all the information we need to understand the scope of the problem.    
The EPA and the Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality have provided a first look at the unimaginable environmental devastation that must be remedied in the area.    
Louisiana's Department of Environmental Quality estimates that as much as 70 million tons of hazardous waste must be disposed of as a result of the Hurricane.    
EPA now says that 24 Superfund sites are located in the affected region, and at least one in New Orleans, the Agricultural Street Landfill, was completely under water.    
Katrina flooded New Orleans with up to 25 feet of water, creating a toxic soup filled with contamination.    
Two weeks ago, the Centers for Disease Control reported that six people have died from contamination-related infections.    
As this polluted soup recedes, it leaves a thick layer of muckâLouisiana officials estimate they are dealing with an area of roughly 20 miles by 10 miles coated in a one-foot thick layer of sediment or sludge.    
As this sludge dries, each moving vehicle and each gust of wind can create a potentially toxic cloud that people returning to New Orleans, as well as first responders, will breathe into their lungs.    
Some are returning with their children and I am particularly worried about the most vulnerable.    
We must respond to this level of devastation with an equal level of devotion to heal these injured communities.  We have a duty in this Committee to focus on the health and safety of people who return to their devastated communities.  We must act decisively to safeguard our fellow citizens by crafting a Health and Safety âMarshal Planâ? to reconstruct this ravaged region.    
We need a strong foundation on which to build our reconstruction effort.  The cornerstone of this effort must be to ensure that we do not leave behind a toxic legacy. We must thoroughly assess and then cleanup the contamination.  We must arm people with information that they need to safely return home and contribute to the recovery.  And, we must do everything in our power to get it right from the beginning.    
Unfortunately EPA may not be providing people with the clear information they need to safely participate in the recovery process.  EPA characterizes air quality on its web site by saying, âThe screening results indicated that chemical concentrations in most areas are below ATSDR health standards of concern.â?    
However, EPA is frequently referring to âacuteâ? health standards.  Acute means that exposure is safe over the course of one day.  The acute standard for benzene, a cancer-causing chemical, is 50 parts per billion.    
However, Hurricane Katrina hit this area more than five weeks ago.  First responders have been down there for longer than one day.  People who return to New Orleans will stay longer than one day.    
EPA should be using a longer-term standard to assess the safety of exposures.  For benzene, a two-week safety exposure standard is 4 parts per billion, not 50.  Numerous air samples taken in New Orleans show levels of benzene that exceeded the 4 parts per billion safety standard.    
EPA should be clear about the actual risks that may be faced when people return to the affected areas for more than a day.  Similarly, EPA should continue to use our nationâs environmental laws to protect people.  This is precisely what they were designed for. We must not take away the safeguards that the people in New Orleans need.    
We must also not make unfounded charges that environmental litigation caused this tragedy.  Such statements are untrue and move us further from the vital task at hand.  The September 2005 GAO report makes clear that environmentalist activities in Louisiana had absolutely no impact on the hurricane damage.    
I am glad to see Lt. General Strock at this hearingâhe and I had a great discussion at the Members briefing a few weeks ago on the value of healthy wetlands for protecting life and property from storms and flooding.    
Wetlands are buffers against storm surge and soak excess water from storms.  Healthy wetlands result in hurricanes reaching land sooner, and thus cutting the hurricane off from the warm waters of the oceanâs surface that feed the stormâs strength.    
I hope that this Committee will further explore this issue and the ways we can protect and conserve our nationâs wetlands.    
I want to close with a quote from Dr. Beverly Wright, Director of the Deep South Center on Environmental justice at Dillard Universityâa university underwater in the wake of Katrina.    ââ¦ The public has a right to clean air and water and it must be protected.â?    