 WASHINGTON, DC â U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) today expressed deep frustration with the Republican majority in the Senate after they voted down a second bipartisan compromise on immigration reform:    
âI do not understand how Republicans could twice stop, through filibuster, comprehensive immigration reform bills that were hailed by many members of both parties.  As a matter of fact, the two compromise bills that Republicans brought down were actually authored by Republicansâthe Specter bill and the Martinez-Hagel bill.        
âWhat is really puzzling to me is how Majority Leader Frist could appear at a press conference announcing his support for the latest compromiseâ the Martinez-Hagel bill â and then turn against it.  His excuse was that he wanted to allow a free flow of amendments to change the compromise, which raises another question: if you are for a compromise, why do you then fight to amend it with killer provisions?    
âThe Martinez-Hagel compromise would have provided increased border security and a path to legality for millions of undocumented workers who are right now living in the shadows.        
âIt is far from perfectâit puts undocumented workers into three separate groups, which would have created unnecessary enforcement and administrative challenges.  I also didnât support the temporary guest worker program included in the bill, which would put downward pressure on wages.  But these flaws were outweighed by the strong benefits of the bill.      
âAll that was necessary after the compromise was reached was to vote on it and pass it, and we would have sent a signal to the American people that we were serious about dealing with this huge immigration challenge.      
âSadly, this compromise was destroyed by the tactics of the Republican Senate.  Republicans want to have it both ways â they want to tell the American people they supported a compromise, but at the same time, they worked to undermine that compromise and shattered the delicate give and take that went into drafting the agreement.â?    
âFor my state, this defeat is particularly disappointing, because undocumented workers  play a vital role in the California economy.  But, despite this major setback, I will continue to work with my colleague Senator Feinstein to find a way out of this legislative paralysis.â?  