 Washington, D.C. - U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) today made the following statement in reaction to GAO's report on the Department of Homeland Security's Urban Area Security Initiative (UASI) grant program:"GAO's study confirms our suspicions â DHS's methodology for determining eligibility for and allocating UASI grants was arbitrary, ineffective, and just plain wrong," Boxer said.  "How can we secure our homeland against terrorists when our government can't even determine what cities are most threatened?  I am thankful that GAO conducted this study and that Sacramento and San Diego are eligible for these crucial grants once again."Last year, Sacramento and San Diego were only eligible for "sustainment funding" for UASI grants and were left off the list of high-risk cities.  Sacramento is the state capital and is home to dozens of critical federal and state government buildings, and the San Diego region is home to major military installations and shares a border with Mexico."The findings from GAO's investigation substantiate the numerous questions and concerns I have raised about the grant over the past year - the overlooked critical infrastructure, the arbitrary eligibility decisions, and the effect of reduced homeland security resources.  This report recognizes the holes in the UASI grant program, but in doing so, it also lays out the path to improving and strengthening this program," Congresswoman Doris O. Matsui (CA-05) said.  "Additionally, from the initial information GAO collected regarding the 2007 process, it seems that DHS has learned something from this investigation, but on this front, only time will tell.  I truly hope this is the case, because as the only risk-based homeland security grant, the UASI grant is a key component of ensuring we are wisely allocating our limited homeland security resources.""As we advocate for more homeland security dollars to be allocated based on risk, we must ensure that the Department's process is a solid one.  The result of strong Congressional oversight and feedback from state and local officials, has greatly improved the process for allocating the Urban Area Security Initiative grants," Rep. Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), Chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security, said.  "However, as this GAO report points out, there is still more to be done to best account for all of the factors associated with risk, threat and consequences when giving out future grants." In addition, Boxer today introduced the Urban Area Security Initiative Improvement Act of 2007, legislation that qualifies the 100 most populous urban areas in the United States as eligible for UASI grants. The bill would also require that DHS employ a "sensitivity analysis" to ensure that its risk evaluations are robust.  GAO found that DHS could make better-informed grant making decisions if it applied a sensitivity analysis to its model for assessing risk."This bill has important implications for making our nation more secure against terrorism," Boxer said.Rep. Matsui introduced companion legislation in the house.  