 Washington, D.C.  Today, U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) and Representatives Jim Costa (D-Fresno), Devin Nunes (R-Tulare) and Dennis Cardoza (D-Merced) introduced the Emergency Farm Assistance Act of 2007 to help farmers, growers, agricultural workers and small businesses cope with losses from last months devastating freeze.  Last months freeze caused California great hardship. Our agricultural community has seen losses of $1.2 billion, and thousands of workers lost their jobs, Boxer said. When our families face this kind of natural disaster, they deserve to know that their government is there to lend a hand. Since the freeze, Democrats and Republicans have come together, from California to Washington, to make sure that our farmers, growers, workers and small businesses can get back on track.   Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger has requested a federal disaster declaration from President Bush. If the President follows through with this request, unemployed farm workers will be eligible for disaster unemployment assistance and food stamps.  Rep. Costa said: The January freeze has endangered the livelihood of farmers and farm workers in the Valley and throughout the state. This legislation will bring much needed aid to these farmers and farm workers and others who have been impacted by the devastating freeze.  Rep. Nunes said: I am pleased to be working with Senator Boxer and a bipartisan group of California lawmakers to speed passage of a disaster relief bill. Critics may say that the cost associated with this legislation is significant. My response is simply this: that the impact on our communities, should we not provide this help, is far more significant. Rep. Cardoza said: Many Central Valley farmers, ranchers and workers have endured great hardships as a result of the January freeze. This federal relief package would provide badly needed assistance to those hardest hit by this natural disaster. The Emergency Farm Assistance Act of 2007 would do the following:  Provide nearly $1.7 billion in Commodity Credit Corporation funds to help farmers recover losses from last months freeze, as well as Californias 2005 floods and 2006 heat wave.  Fund programs to provide agricultural employees with disaster unemployment assistance and food stamps. Offer temporary rent and mortgage assistance to farm workers facing hardship and USDA grants of up to $20,000 for public and nonprofit organizations that provide services to low-income and seasonal workers.  Fund a Small Business Administration Economic Loss Grant Program to help struggling businesses.   