 Washington, DC  â The Transportation Security Administration has not adequately secured Americaâs passenger railways, according to a nonpartisan Government Accountability Office report released today by U.S. Senators Barbara Boxer (D-CA) and Olympia Snowe (R-ME), and Congressman Mike Castle (R-DE).    
Boxer said, "The GAO report shows that the Transportation Security Administration is not fulfilling its duty to protect Americans, and that needs to end." 
Senator Boxer, along with Senator Snowe and Congressman Castle, requested a GAO report on rail security in March 2004 in light of the Madrid bombings to determine if American railways were adequately protected against the threat of terrorism.    
The GAO report found that TSA has not completed passenger rail risk assessments or established a methodology to analyze or characterize risks.  The report includes several recommendations to TSA to secure Americaâs railways, including developing a timeline for completing its risk assessment methodology and developing rail security standards that can be measured and enforced.    
Boxer said, "In light of the recent threat to New Yorkâs subway system, it is even more imperative that we not ignore the terrorist threat to our railways.  We must stop talking about the holes in our nation's rail security and take action to fix them.  The Department of Homeland Security must follow GAOâs recommendations, including developing security standards that reflect industry best practices." 
Snowe said, "As this report reveals, the Transportation Security Administration is not involving industry stakeholders in their rail security assessments, which has led to an incomplete plan that is well behind schedule.  We are in a situation where our individual rail services across the country have no clear understanding of what the best means are of securing their rail systems. Our overarching federal approach does no sufficiently consider the risks before us. Without the necessary federal funding for rail security and an inability to properly utilize what grant money does exist, we have an environment where no one knows whether or not Americaâs passenger rail system is adequately protected. Given the London bombings and the recent heightening of security in the New York City subway system, one wonders what it will take before the federal government makes a real commitment to rail security." 
Castle said, "Even in the wake of the Madrid and London train bombings and now the latest threat in New York City, there is no question that one of our greatest areas of vulnerability continues to be passenger rail.  Considering the House of Representatives just passed a Homeland Security funding bill that guts rail security by $4 million, the timing of this report, which we requested, couldn't be better. It clearly shows that the Transportation Security Agency has no comprehensive plan for rail security or risk assessment and frankly, that is just unacceptable. It's also significant that the report doesn't just highlight failures, it provides recommendations on how to improve rail and transit security by increasing the number and visibility of security personnel, using canine teams to detect explosives, upgrading technology and tightening access controls. I plan to introduce legislation in the coming weeks to implement many of these recommendations."  