 Washington,  D.C.  U.S. Senator  Barbara Boxer (D-CA) has written Secretary of the Navy Donald Winter today  asking him not to appeal the ruling which orders the Navy to cease all sonar  training exercises in Southern California  waters until adequate measures are taken to protect whales and other marine  life.  Following  please find Senator Boxers letter to Secretary  Winter:  August  8, 2007   The  Honorable Donald Winter Secretary  of the Navy 1000  Navy Pentagon Washington,  D.C. 20350-1000  Dear  Secretary Winter:  I  write to you regarding the August 6th order by the U.S. District Court for the Central District of  California, which granted a preliminary  injunction on the Navys use of mid-frequency active sonar during training  exercises off the coast of Southern  California. I strongly urge you not to appeal the order, but to  fully comply and expedite a settlement with the Natural Resources Defense  Council and their co-plaintiffs.  The  settlement must involve the Navys adoption of additional mitigation measures to  significantly reduce the risk of harm to marine life during sonar exercises. In  the order, the court has declared that the Navys proposed mitigation measures  are woefully inadequate and ineffectual, and the Navy's actions in planning  and conducting the exercises are in probable violation of the National  Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), the Administrative Procedures Act (APA), and  the Coastal Zone Management Act (CZMA). The California Coastal Commission's conditions  conveyed to the Navy should be a basis for the protective measures  needed.  I  deeply appreciate the national security concerns and needs related to protection  from submarine threats. However, Southern  Californias waters are among the richest and most ecologically  significant marine habitats in the world. The Navy should be able to implement  stronger measures to adequately protect the marine resources that are so  important to California and our nation. As stated in the  courts ruling, harm to the environment, Plaintiffs, and public interest  outweighs the harm that Defendants would  incur.  I  hope for your cooperation on this significant  matter.   Sincerely,      Barbara Boxer   United States Senator   ###  