 Washington, D.C. â U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) today urged Mexican President Vicente Fox to heighten efforts to secure the U.S.- Mexico border after recent reports of incursions by individuals appearing to be members of the Mexican military.    
Senator Boxer sent the following letter to Mexican President Vicente Fox.    
  February 8, 2006    
President Vicente Fox  Residencia Oficial de Los Pinos  Mexico DF 
Dear President Fox:    
I write to you to express my concern about an issue of importance to both our nations â the recent incursions into the United States by individuals appearing to be members of the Mexican military.    
As you know, the United States and Mexico have long been partners in efforts to stop drug trafficking and better secure our shared border.  But these recent incursions and confrontations between U.S. agents and heavily armed drug traffickers in military uniforms only serve to show that we are falling short in our shared responsibility.    
Your Ministry of Foreign Affairs has stated that Mexicoâs military units do not have the type of weapons or vehicles described by U.S. authorities, and that your Administration believes that the traffickers were most likely linked to a drug cartel in Chihuahua.  While I think it is impossible to determine at this point whether or not these recent incidents did involve Mexican military, I believe it is most pressing to determine how such incidents could occur at all.  If cartel members are posing as Mexican soldiers, all of our citizens are at risk.    
Maintaining the integrity of the U.S.-Mexico border is critical to preventing crime and acts of terrorism, and to assuring the economic stability of both our nations.  That is why our two nations must deal swiftly and severely with any violations of border policy.    
I know that our governments are working together to address this issue, but as a Senator from California, which has had at least 75 documented incursions since 1996, I want to urge your personal involvement in this matter.  I stand ready to work with you and your Administration to shed further light on this problem and produce a long-term solution that will benefit both our nations. Thank you for your consideration.    
Sincerely,    
Barbara Boxer  United States Senator 
  