 Washington, D.C.  Today, U.S. Senators Barbara Boxer and Dianne Feinstein (both D-CA) introduced the Sacramento River Bend National Recreation Area Act, legislation that would designate 17,000 acres of BLM public land adjacent to the Sacramento River Bend as a National Recreation Area. Senator Boxer said, This is quintessential California landscape. By designating this special place as a National Recreation Area, Californians and all Americans will be able to share in the splendor of the area and the recreational opportunities it provides. California is home to some of the most beautiful wild lands in the country, and the Sacramento River Bend is no exception, Senator Feinstein said. I am pleased to once again join with Senator Boxer on this bill, which would designate 17,000 acres in the area as a National Recreation Area. This will help to preserve the regions fragile oak woodland ecosystem and protect several native species, which are threatened by development. And I look forward to working with Congressman Herger to help encourage our colleagues in the House and Senate to join with us to ensure that visitors from California and across the country can enjoy visiting this pristine place for years to come.  This proposed designation has broad support locally, including from the Boards of Supervisors of both Tehama and Shasta counties and the City of Redding. Located about 140 miles north of Sacramento near the town of Red Bluff, much of the areas stunning landscape is oak woodland, the ecosystem most threatened by development in America. One of the last wild sections of the Sacramento River, this healthy stretch supports four salmon runs and abundant bird life, including American bald eagles. We are starting the year with great momentum and have high hopes for this legislation. I thank Senator Feinstein for supporting this proposal and look forward to working with Representative Herger and members of the community to get this legislation passed, Boxer said. Boxer and Feinstein introduced identical legislation in the Senate last year. Senator Boxer also included this acreage as part of the California Wild Heritage Act, which she introduced in February. Representative Wally Herger (R-CA) introduced similar legislation in the House last week.  