 [Washington, D.C.] â U.S. Senators Dick Durbin (D-IL) and Barbara Boxer (D-CA) today said that Americans deserve better than energy companies that gouge consumers at the pump in order to pay their top executives millions of dollars in salaries and bonuses.    
The Senators demanded that top oil executives, who are scheduled to testify before the Senate tomorrow, explain to the American people why energy industry CEO compensation has increased by 215% since 2002. During that same period, oil company profits soared, while a price for a gallon of gasoline increased $2, or 174% climb, and the residential cost of a thousand cubic foot of natural gas increased about $4, about a 50% climb. (American Progress Action Fund Report, Pain at the Pump: Profits in the Boardroom)    
âEnergy executives are being rewarded with multi-million dollar bonuses for draining the wallets of American families while filling the coffers of ExxonMobil, Chevron and Shell. With this Administration, there is no better time to be an energy company CEO. The profiteering of Big Oil is hurting consumers, business and framers all across America. Itâs time for the Senate to ask the tough questions and to demand answers,â? Durbin said.    
Boxer said, âAmericans have patience during hard timesâ they understand shared sacrifice. What they donât understand or have patience for is rich oil executives taking advantage of them and exploiting their need to drive to their jobs and take their kids to school. Itâs going to take one heck of an excuse to convince the Committee tomorrow that they arenât laughing all the way to the bank. I look forward to hearing them try to say that itâs not all about profits and greed.â? 
According to the report, Lee R. Raymond, CEO of ExxonMobil, will receive $25.77 million in salary, bonus and stock gains. James Mulva of ConocoPhillips will be paid $16.79 million in 2005 and David OâReilly from Chevron expects to receive $8.2 million. These executives, along with others from BP and Shell, are scheduled to testify tomorrow before a joint hearing of the Energy & Natural Resources Committee and the Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation.    
Since 2002, ExxonMobil profits have increased by 120%, with $9.9 billion in profits this past quarter; Chevronâs profits increased by 1,080%; ConocoPhillips increased profits by 438% to $8.13 billion; BPâs profits grew by 147%; and Royal Dutch Shellâs profits increased by 94%.  