 Washington, D.C. - In celebration of World Oceans Week, U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer today introduced comprehensive legislation to protect the worldâs oceans.    
âOur oceans are one of our greatest natural resources â and right now they are in serious danger,â? Boxer said.  âWe must commit ourselves as trustees of our oceans to take action before they are damaged beyond repair.â?  
Boxerâs legislation will implement recommendations from two high-level national commissions, the congressionally established bipartisan U.S. Commission on Ocean Policy, and the independent Pew Ocean Commission, both of which found the worldâs oceans to be in severe distress.  By specifically targeting some of the most serious challenges facing national ocean resources and the manner by which these resources are governed, this legislation provides a comprehensive approach to ocean management and protection.    
Highlights of Boxerâs legislation include:    
Strengthening ocean governance: Boxerâs legislation will restructure oceans governance by establishing an independent National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) and creating a Council on Ocean Stewardship to protect oceans. 
Protecting and conserving marine wildlife and habitat: The bill will create coral protection areas and authorizes $50 million per year in grants to local communities to restore fisheries and coastal areas. 
Strengthening fisheries:  The bill requires NOAA and regional fishery councils to develop plans to protect and sustain fish populations for future generations.  It also requires that, when determining the health of a fishery, the entire ecosystem be taken into account. 
Improving the quality of Ocean Water: The bill authorizes $11.2 billion per year in funding for state and local governments to reduce pollution and to increase monitoring.  It also requires the establishment of maximum amounts of pollution that a body of water can hold and still be healthy. 
Boxerâs legislation will also address needs regarding marine science, research and technology, coastal development and invasive species.  Senator Boxer is the Ranking Member on the Commerce Committeeâs subcommittee on oceans.  The bill is co-sponsored by Senator Frank Lautenberg (D-NJ).  Congressman Sam Farr (D-CA) and the House Oceans Caucus will also introduce their oceans bill today. 
For their important contributions to this legislation and their outstanding leadership on oceans issues, Senator Boxer would like to thank Senators Gregg (R-NH), Inouye (D-HI), Lautenberg (D-NJ), Levin (D-MI), Hollings (D- SC) and Congressman Sam Farr (D-CA).    