 Washington, D.C. - U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) this week called on Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld to end the Pentagonâs Joint Advertising and Market Research Recruitment Database, which uses a private marketing firm to gather highly sensitive personal information on millions of students for recruitment purposes, placing these teenagers at unnecessary risk of identity theft.    
Following please find Senator Boxerâs letter to Secretary Rumsfeld: 
May 8, 2006   The Honorable Donald Rumsfeld    Secretary of Defense    1000 Defense Pentagon    Washington, DC 20301 Dear Secretary Rumsfeld: I am writing to express my concern over the Pentagons program to collect and analyze confidential personal information on high school students over the age of 15, college students, and others for the purpose of identifying potential military recruits. The need for such a database is suspect and the potential harm resulting from the release of the information is too great to support the continuation of the program. My constituents have made it very clear that they do not support the governments indiscriminate collection of private information about Americans. According to the Federal Register notice, the Pentagons Joint Advertising and Market Research Recruiting Database (JAMRS) will include such information as a students social security number, date of birth, ethnicity, address, gender, grade point average, and telephone number. This highly personal information is being gathered on millions of individuals and will be maintained by the Pentagon for at least five years. Particularly concerning is the Pentagons use of a private marketing firm to assist in the gathering and analysis of this data.  I recognize the need for a strong military and the difficulties the Pentagon faces in recruiting individuals to serve in the Armed Forces. However, I cannot support the collection of highly sensitive data and the sharing of that information with private contractors. The potential harm from the misuse or inadvertent disclosure of this information outweighs any benefits of the database. According to a 2003 Federal Trade Commission survey, over a five year period, more than 27 million consumers were victims of identity theft. The information being collected by the Pentagon is exactly the kind of data sought by identity thieves. The existence of the JAMRS program puts millions of teenagers unnecessarily at risk. I urge you to immediately stop the JAMRS program and to delete the sensitive data already collected on individuals in the database.  Thank you for your prompt consideration of this request. Sincerely,   Barbara Boxer    United States Senator   