SEN. SANTORUM, REP. GERLACH PRESENT $5 MILLION OF FEDERAL FUNDING TO BOROUGH OF PHOENIXVILLE
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference and Rep. Jim Gerlach (R-6-PA), today delivered federal funding to the Borough of Phoenixville, Chester County for the French Creek Parkway. Sen. Santorum and Rep. Gerlach secured $5 million in the Safe, Accountable, Flexible and Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (SAFETEA-LU), a transportation funding bill which reauthorized federal funding for surface transportation programs through Fiscal Year 2009.
   "I am pleased Congressman Gerlach and I were able to secure federal funding for the construction of the French Creek Parkway. This parkway will provide easier access to downtown Phoenixville and pave the way for extensive economic development in the area, while retaining the character of the community," said Senator Santorum. 
   "The French Creek Parkway is more than just a road, it is the key to redevelopment and revitalization of the town and brownfield site; this road will also help alleviate traffic congestion downtown. Senator Santorum and Congressman Gerlach's continued support and involvement is going to help make this project a reality," said Anthony C. DiGirolomo, Manager of the Borough of Phoenixville.
   "This is great news for the people of Phoenixville. Securing funding for this project has been one of my top priorities in Congress and I'm glad to see our efforts pay off. This money will help fuel further development and play a role in the economic expansion of downtown Phoenixville," said Representative Gerlach.
   Senator Santorum fought to keep Pennsylvania a donee state under the bill's formula, which means the Commonwealth will receive more from the Highway Trust Fund than it contributes. The previous version of the bill, considered in the 108th Congress, made Pennsylvania a donor state with a rate of return of $.97 for every dollar it paid into the fund. The SAFETEA-LU bill Senator Santorum helped to pass ensures that Pennsylvania will never receive less than $1.13 for every dollar contributed.
   Later, Senator Santorum was at Crown Cork & Seal in Philadelphia, to give a federal legislative update and take questions from employees. Crown Cork & Seal is a leading manufacturer of packaging products to consumer marketing companies around the world and employs hundreds of Pennsylvanians. Senator Santorum discussed his support for businesses in the Commonwealth, including his support for federal legislation that will further stimulate economic development.
   "In 2003 I supported the Jobs and Growth Act, this tax relief we passed has stimulated growth; it has actually resulted in increased tax revenue for the federal government in addition to decreasing the burden on small businesses and American families. Extending the tax relief and better controlling our spending means more jobs, more income, and a robust economy from which all Americans can benefit," said Senator Santorum.
   Although jobs news at Crown Cork & Seal has been positive, the company has felt the strains of the explosion of asbestos-related litigation that is bankrupting scores of companies, destroying jobs, and failing to provide proper compensation to those actually injured by asbestos exposure.
   "Our current system is short-changing asbestos victims and hurting the economy. I have worked with my Pennsylvania colleague, Senator Specter, on legislation that ensures that money gets to asbestos victims quickly and efficiently without bankrupting companies like Crown Cork & Seal," said Senator Santorum.
   "We are delighted to host Senator Santorum at Crown Cork & Seal today to discuss issues of importance to our employees. He has been a tireless advocate of protecting jobs in southeastern Pennsylvania that have been affected by the asbestos litigation crisis, like those at Crown," said John W. Conway, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer of Crown Holdings, Inc.
 
 