FACT VS. FICTION: S. 786, STRENGTHENING CORE MISSION OF NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE
  Some in Congress, assisted by Washington-based lobbying organizations have launched an attack against legislation proposed by Sen. Rick Santorum that would strengthen the core mission of the National Weather Service - forecasting the weather and issuing severe weather warnings. These attacks appear to reflect a misguided attempt to create jobs for federal employees rather than protecting the public safety. 
   The opponents fail to note how the National Weather Service (NWS) has operated in partnership with private entities since their inception in the early 1940s. Up until December 2004 there was a cooperative relationship that valued the expertise of the NWS in its core functions with the distribution expertise of the private entities.  
   The National Oceanic & Atmospheric Association (NOAA) has recently acknowledged the need for a public-private sector partnership. On January 19, 2006, NOAA revised its policy, understanding that "[t]he Nation benefits from government information disseminated both by federal agencies and by diverse nonfederal parties, including commercial and not-for-profit entities. NOAA recognizes cooperation, not competition, with the private sector and academic and research entities best serves the public interest and best meets the varied needs of specific individuals, organizations, and economic entities." 
   It is important that the public-private sector partnership continues to ensure that accurate weather data is distributed to the American people in a timely fashion. 
   So let's be clear about what this bill does - 
   * Clarifies that the number one focus and priority of NWS, particularly as it relates to severe weather situations like hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, storms, snowfall, drought, etc., is to protect the public. 
   * Ensures the continued partnership between the NWS and private entities by ensuring that all taxpayers - individuals, media outlets and private entities - get NWS data, information, guidance, forecasts, and warnings in real time and simultaneously. 
   * Prevents insider information and "secret briefings" by making certain all taxpayers are treated fairly and given simultaneous information - a requirement common to other federal agencies. 
   Here's a look at the most commonly heard myths, and the facts the opponents want to blow away in the wind. 
   MYTH: The bill would compromise public safety. 
   Reality: The National Weather Services Duties Act of 2005 starts from the premise that the NWS' core function is to "protect life and property." Senator Santorum recognizes the critical information provided by NWS to help Americans prepare for dangerous weather conditions. To ensure that this is the function that NWS is pursuing, the bill requires that the NWS prepare and issue severe weather forecasts and warnings; prepare and issue meteorological guidance and core forecast information; collect and exchange meteorological, hydrological, climatic, and oceanographic data and information; and provide reports, forecasts, warnings, and other advice to the Secretary of Transportation. These clarifications assure that the main focus of NWS is on public safety, and not extraneous endeavors. Nothing in the bill would prevent the NWS from continuing to provide the critical public safety information all Americans rely upon. 
   MYTH: This bill will prevent the general public from getting access to weather information. The bill could also undo years of advances in communication and push the weather service back to a "pre-Internet era" and force NWS to shut down its website. 
   Reality: The NWS under this bill is required - not allowed, but required - to collect and exchange meteorological, hydrological, climatic, and oceanographic data and information. The only new caveat is that this information must be provided to ALL taxpayers, not select ones. NWS would have to make its information available "in real time, and without delay for internal use, in a manner that ensures that all members of the public have the opportunity for simultaneous and equal access to such data, information, guidance, forecasts, and warnings." NWS can, and should, continue to maintain its website and distribute information that is freely accessible to all interested parties. The only ones that won't have the same "access" are those who benefited from insider information and secret briefings based on information that was NOT available to the public. 
   MYTH: It would force taxpayers to pay twice for weather data. 
   Reality: Taxpayers - all taxpayers - should have "simultaneous and equal access" to the information generated by NWS. Right now the NWS provides this information selectively to certain media outlets or preferred private entities. The federal government should not be making decisions as to which taxpayers get information - whether by giving out information to a specific TV station or directing Internet users to identified private providers. This information must be given to all individuals simultaneously, and not to preferred providers. When everyone operates on a level playing field, consumers can decide where to get their weather information. 
   MYTH: The weather service could only give its data to private industry, not the public. 
   Reality: This scenario, advanced by an employee union trying to protect federal jobs, is preposterous and a disingenuous reading of the bill. As noted above, the bill requires that the information be provided to all taxpayers on at the same time. While the bill does set a minimum level of how this information is provided ("through a set of data portals designed for volume access by commercial providers"), it does NOT limit what information is provided.
   MYTH: Pilots and mariners will lose access to data the weather service currently provides. 
   Reality: In addition to the general information availability already discussed, the bill specifically requires the provision of reports, forecasts, warnings, and other advice to the Secretary of Transportation and other persons pursuant to section 44720 of title 49, United States Code (aviation-related). Further, a specific exception is included where the United States Government is obligated to provide the information under international aviation agreements. 
   MYTH: The bill would bar weather service forecasters from giving one-on-one interviews to media. 
   Reality: We have all seen the interviews from staff at the National Hurricane Centers as they update reporters and the public on impending storms. This bill will not prevent the weather service forecasters from conducting these interviews, provided the interviews are based on information that is made available to the public. It will, and should, prevent the forecasters at the NWS from picking favorite TV reporters to give out information before the public has the same access. Critical public information should not be used as a ratings generation tool, and this legislation ensures that it will not be.
 
 