SEN. SANTORUM, REP. GERLACH ANNOUNCE $1.5 MILLION FOR PENN AVENUE REDEVELOPMENT IN BERKS COUNTY
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, and Rep. Jim Gerlach (R-PA-6), today announced a $1.5 million loan guarantee from the Department of Housing and Urban Development's (HUD) Section 108 program for the Berks County Redevelopment Authority (RDA) for the Penn Avenue Redevelopment Area in West Reading. 
   "I am pleased that Berks County has received this important loan guarantee to assist with the Penn Avenue Redevelopment Area," said Senator Santorum. "As a member of Senate leadership, I will continue to do all that I can to see that federal funding continues to go to local programs at home that clean up communities and encourage economic development across Pennsylvania."
   "I am really happy that the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) has recognized the importance of the redevelopment of the Penn Avenue corridor in West Reading. This area is the key to the economic development of West Reading and I applaud the efforts of the Borough, the Berks County Redevelopment Authority and HUD," said Congressman Gerlach.
   The Penn Avenue Redevelopment Area is a four-block area in the Borough of West Reading and is currently the home to a privately owned hotel with retail at 250 Penn Avenue. This project will relocate current businesses and residential tenants, demolish the hotel, and clear the site which will then be sold to a developer that plans to build a 30,000 square foot office building that will create at least 60 jobs.
   The RDA is working with the Borough to revitalize commercial development and to clean up blighted, deteriorated or deteriorating areas pursuant to Pennsylvania law.
   The Section 108 loan guarantee from HUD allows the RDA to leverage funds received under the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program into "federally-guaranteed loans large enough to pursue physical and economic revitalization projects that can renew entire neighborhoods or provide affordable housing to low- and moderate-income persons," according to the announcement from HUD.
 
 