SEN. SANTORUM INTRODUCES ENCOURAGING WORK ACT OF 2005
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today joined Sen. Max Baucus (D-MT) to introduce legislation to permanently extend, improve and combine the Work Opportunity Tax Credit (WOTC) and Welfare-to-Work (W-t-W) tax credit through the Encouraging Work Act of 2005. Under current law, the WOTC and W-t-W will expire on January 1, 2006.  
   "I am pleased to work with Senator Baucus on this effort to continue to create promising opportunities for all Americans," said Senator Santorum. "The Encouraging Work Act of 2005 is an important step in helping Americans shift from public assistance programs to lives of self-sufficiency. I urge my colleagues in the Senate to support this meaningful legislation." 
   The Encouraging Work Act of 2005 provides for a permanent program extension of the WOTC and W-t-W tax credits and would encourage more employers to participate, make investments in expanding outreach to identify and train potential employers, and avoid the uncertainty of termination and renewal for greater program stability and effectiveness. 
   "The statistics about the number of people who have been able to join the workforce because of the Work Opportunity Tax Credit and Welfare-to-Work tax credit speak volumes about the success of these programs," Baucus said. "Passing the Encouraging Work Act of 2005 will be crucial if we're to continue this success. Passing this legislation will move people off the welfare roles and into the workforce. I'm pleased to be working together with Senator Santorum to help provide more job opportunities for people across the country." 
   Since 1996, the WOTC and W-t-W tax credits have helped more than 2.7 million people enter the workforce. This legislation is supported by many organizations including the National Council of Chain Restaurants, National Retail Federation, Food Marketing Institute, National Association of Convenience Stores, National Restaurant Association, National Association of Chain Drug Stores, American Nursery and Landscape Association and the American Health Care Association. 
   Senators Gordon Smith (R-OR), Jay Rockefeller (D-WV), and Jim Jeffords (I-VT) are all original cosponsors of the legislation.
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 