SEN. SANTORUM: KEEPING PENNSYLVANIANS SAFE
  The way we protect our homeland has changed drastically since we lost almost three thousand American lives on September 11, 2001. At the time, we were unaware of just how vulnerable our nation was to the creative tactics of our enemy. Since then, Congress passed the Patriot Act, which gave law enforcement and counter-terrorism personnel the tools they need to protect all of us here in Pennsylvania and across the country. And as we have seen over the past few years, these tools have successfully thwarted the attempts of terrorist operatives to again murder our citizens.
   Yet somehow, a few members of the Senate have spent the last few months preventing the reauthorization of the Patriot Act, putting us in danger of allowing some of these vital protections to fade away. They made mythical claims of civil liberty infringements that simply do not exist. They used Senate procedures to prevent each member from exercising his or her vote on the Senate floor. But thankfully, common sense finally prevailed and these stall tactics ended-earlier last week, the President signed the reauthorization of the Patriot Act into law. Our law enforcement agencies, homeland security personnel, and prosecutors will, for the next few years, have the tools they need. 
   So now that Congress has fulfilled our first responsibility to the American people-to do everything in our power to protect you from foreign adversaries-I'd like to address the Patriot Act, what it does, and why it is so important.
   First, the Patriot Act gives investigators familiar tools to use against a new threat. What do I mean by that? Many of the steps included in the Patriot Act to combat terrorism were previously used to combat organized crime. For example, the Patriot Act allows for the use of roving wiretaps in terrorist investigations. Roving wiretaps refer to wiretaps that follow an individual and are not tied to a specific telephone, number or location. Prior to this legislation, law enforcement personnel were forced to obtain a separate wiretap for each phone that a suspected terrorist uses. This was not the case when dealing with drug lords or organized crime, and so we expanded the use of these important tactics to include terror suspects. Now, whether a terrorist is using a landline, a cell phone, an Internet phone, or personal handheld device, our investigators will, with a court order, be able to listen to them. If a terror suspect is talking to someone inside the United States, we want to know who that someone is and why they are talking to terrorists.
   The Patriot Act also breaks down previous barriers that prevented our intelligence and law enforcement agencies from sharing information with each other. Terrorism is a global threat that requires the use of all our resources-foreign and domestic. That means the FBI, immigration officials, domestic military investigators and others must have access to information generated by our foreign intelligence operatives. There's no question that terrorists are talking to each other-it's simply irresponsible to prevent our intelligence agencies from doing the same.
   There are a number of other provisions of the Patriot Act that have been extended, all of which play a critical role in our ongoing effort to keep Americans safe. It allows for the use of a search warrant, under court supervision, to seize unopened voice mail held by a service provider. It allows investigators to offer immunity for those who assist in the execution of a Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act wiretap. And it updates our laws to better enable us to respond to the current technological environment.
   Just because there has not been a terrorist attack on our nation since September 11, 2001 does not mean that our enemies are not trying. We cannot afford to become complacent-the risks are much, much too severe. The Patriot Act was a sensible response to September 11, and it continues to be a sensible response today. It gives our law enforcement personnel what they need to preserve our security while at the same time protecting the civil rights of innocent Americans. Reauthorizing this law was one of the most important actions Congress has taken this year, and I am proud to have played a role in its extension.
 
 