SENS. SANTORUM, DURBIN SHARE COMMITMENT TO INTERNATIONAL HIV/AIDS ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS
  Sens. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, and Dick Durbin (D-IL), Assistant Democratic Leader, today held a press conference to draw attention to their shared commitment to fully fund President Bush's fiscal year 2006 Budget Request for bilateral HIV/AIDS programs and to provide an additional $500 million in multilateral funding for the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria. If supported, these funding levels will provide $3.7 billion for all international HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria programs in fiscal year 2006.  
   Senators Santorum and Durbin sent a letter to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on the Budget to underscore the importance of the United States' commitment to international HIV/AIDS assistance programs. President Bush's Budget Request for fiscal year 2006 includes $2.9 billion for bilateral programs for HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria - both Senator Santorum and Senator Durbin support this request. 
   In the letter dated March 5, 2005, Senators Santorum and Durbin stated, "We urge you to add these funds as the Committee considers the fiscal year 2006 Budget Resolution. If the Committee is unable to add an additional $500 million for the Global Fund, we intend to pursue a floor amendment to add these funds when the budget resolution is taken up by the full Senate." 
   "The initiative of Senators Santorum and Durbin and Chairman Hyde in the House reflect the best of the American spirit," said Jack Valenti, President of Friends of the Global Fight Against AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, and longtime head of the Motion Picture Association of America. "They are committing generously to helping the poor and vulnerable of this world, and they are reaching across the aisle to fight these diseases as effectively as possible. They know that we cannot let partisanship impede our fight against AIDS and poverty. By investing more in the Global Fund, they are also reaching across the ocean to encourage and challenge other nations to do more." 
   "The United States helped found the Global Fund and has consistently been its most generous supporter," said Richard Feachem, Executive Director of the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. "Together with the President's Emergency Plan, we are rolling out treatment and prevention programs on an unprecedented scale. To keep our promise to the world's poor, we must sustain this momentum. We need more money to do so, and I applaud Senators Santorum and Durbin for their leadership to help meet our fundraising needs. I look forward to the U.S. and all our donors working together this year to ensure the Global Fund's success." 
   Congressman Henry Hyde (R-IL), Chairman of the House International Relations Committee, also commented, "The United States will continue to be the World's leader in the global fight against HIV/AIDS. The amendment sends an unequivocal message to all donor countries that the United States wants to see greater international participation in the Global Fund. By signaling our willingness to make additional resources available to the Fund, while simultaneously protecting a key element of current law that restricts U.S. contribution to one-third of the annual total received by the Fund, the amendment should bring more donors on board. Continued or increased U.S. contributions must also be accompanied by efforts by the Global Fund itself to ensure that its efforts to combat the global HIV/AIDS pandemic are urgent and effective." 
   "The global crisis of AIDS is not a partisan or a political issue," said Senator Durbin. "It is first and foremost a human issue. Every country and every person must take responsibility for the globalization of health, but the United States, as the world's wealthiest and most powerful nation, should take the lead in securing resources to fight the global AIDS pandemic. No one should lose access to life-saving treatment because the U.S. didn't come up with our share of the needed funds, which is why Senator Santorum and I are working to fully fund our portion of the Global Fund." 
   "This is the best duet I've heard in a long time...music to my ears. Senators Santorum and Durbin have put their politics aside to work together in response to the AIDS emergency. This kind of leadership, with support from all sides, is the only way we're going to beat this pandemic. It's also a challenge to the rest of the world to provide the other two-thirds of what the Global Fund will need to keep its programs running. I thank them both, and Senator Specter as well -- bipartisanship is great, but to have the two Pennsylvania Senators working on this shows how broad support is for the Global Fund," said Bono, lead singer of U2 and co-founder of DATA (Debt AIDS Trade Africa). 
   "The HIV/AIDS pandemic has reached a staggering proportion. At the end of 2004, an estimated 40 million people were living with HIV/AIDS. The United States has been an important leader in the effort to fight these infectious diseases and as a result of our efforts, many people are now receiving antiretroviral therapy treatment," said Senator Santorum. "This is one of the most consequential issues of our time and we cannot afford to avoid responding to this crisis. We must continue our commitment of compassion and work in a bipartisan fashion to ensure that the efforts to fight these diseases know no political boundaries. If an amendment to the fiscal year 2006 Budget Resolution is necessary, I hope my colleagues in the Senate will join Senator Durbin and I in adding $500 million to the Global Fund."
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610; Angela Benander, 202/224-7115.
 
 