SEN. SANTORUM RECEIVES UPDATE ON AVIAN FLU VACCINATION RESEARCH, DELIVERS $6 MILLION IN FEDERAL FUNDING FOR BUCKS COUNTY INTERMODAL
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today was in Chester and Bucks counties to tour and meet with employees at Novavax, Inc.; meet with employees at Bentley Systems Incorporated; and deliver significant federal funding to the Southeastern Pennsylvania Transportation Authority.
   In Chester County, Senator Santorum toured Novavax, Inc. corporate headquarters in Malvern. Novavax is a specialty biopharmaceutical company focused on drug delivery and biological technologies. Currently their research includes the development of the Virus Like Particle (VLP) technology into vaccines for the prevention of infectious viruses such as HIV/AIDS; pandemic flu, like Avian Influenza (AI); seasonal flu and SARS. 
   Dr. Rahul Singhvi, President and CEO of Novavax said, "We are delighted to have Senator Santorum at Novavax headquarters in Malvern today. I am very impressed with the Senator's keen interest in developing countermeasures against a potential pandemic caused by the avian flu virus. He has been an advocate for providing government assistance to small innovative American companies such as Novavax to develop innovative solutions to such problems. We are honored with the confidence that the Senator has shown in Novavax and its Virus-Like Particle based vaccine against avian influenza."
   "I am pleased to be here at Novavax today to see the advances they are making in the production of Virus-Like Particle based vaccines. Avian flu is something that we need to be prepared to face head on because the reality is that avian flu is making its way around the world and all signs indicate that it is only a matter of time before we discover it here in the United States," said Senator Santorum. "I am proud to see a Pennsylvania based company at the forefront of the research to fight avian flu."
   As a member of the Senate Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry Committee, Senator Santorum is concerned about the rate at which AI is spreading to other countries. In January at the Pennsylvania Farm Show in Harrisburg, Senator Santorum held a hearing to explore how prepared Pennsylvania is to respond to, and prevent the spread of a possible AI outbreak.
   Following the tour of Novavax, Senator Santorum met with employees to give a federal legislative update and take questions about various issues including government preparedness for AI.
   Also in Chester County, Senator Santorum joined U.S. Commerce Secretary Carlos M. Gutierrez; Congressman Jim Gerlach (R-PA-6); and Greg Bentley, CEO of Bentley Systems Incorporated in Philadelphia, to highlight President Bush's American Competitiveness Initiative and discuss the importance of innovation and competitiveness to Philadelphia and the U.S. economy.
   Later in Bucks County, Senator Santorum and Representative Mike Fitzpatrick (R-PA-8) presented $6 million in federal funding to the Southeastern Pennsylvania Transportation Authority for the Bucks County Intermodal. Senator Santorum secured $3 million in the Safe, Accountable, Flexible and Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (SAFETEA-LU) bill. Rep. Fitzpatrick secured $2.5 million in SAFETEA-LU and together Senator Santorum and Rep. Fitzpatrick secured $500,000 in the Fiscal Year 2006 Federal Transit Administration appropriations.
   "I have always encouraged commuters to take advantage of public and mass transportation in southeastern Pennsylvania. I am pleased that this funding will make these venues safer and more accessible for commuters and visitors. Representative Fitzpatrick and I recognized the very significant need for this funding at Croydon and Levittown, and worked together to secure the federal dollars necessary to provide significant improvements, including the installation of bus shelters, signs, station upgrades, improved bus access and parking expansion," said Senator Santorum.
   Senator Santorum has been an ardent supporter of public transportation and specifically rail transportation. As a member of the Senate Banking Committee, Senator Santorum works directly on issues that affect and oversee transit issues. Recently, Senator Santorum was a co-sponsor of the Amtrak Reauthorization bill, which will authorize $11.4 billion to Amtrak over the next six years.
   "I am happy to welcome Senator Santorum to Bucks County for this important announcement today," Fitzpatrick said. "As a society we must look for ways to lessen our dependence on foreign oil. One of the most available means to do this is rail transportation. However, we cannot convince more people to ride trains if the stations fall into disrepair. These improvements to the Croydon and Levittown train stations will add value to these stations and make rail transportation more attractive for our residents," Fitzpatrick stressed.
   For more information about Senator Santorum and Avian Influenza (AI) go to http://santorum.senate.gov and enter the keyword: AVIAN.
   For more information about Senator Santorum and transportation funding go to http://santorum.senate.gov and enter the keywords: TRANSPORTATION.
 
 