SENS. SANTORUM, SPECTER ANNOUNCE FUNDING FOR LANCASTER COUNTY FIRE COMPANY
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, and Sen. Arlen Specter (R-PA), a member of the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, announced today that the Department of Homeland Security has approved $42,200 in federal funding for Eden Fire Company #1 in Lancaster County.  
   "This funding will provide our first responders in Lancaster County with the staffing and training they need to provide their community with the best protection possible," said Senator Santorum. "It is important that local fire departments and emergency personnel have the resources they need to ensure the safety and security of Pennsylvanians during times of need." 
   "Pennsylvania fire services must be staffed at full capacity in order to adequately respond to an emergency situation in which people's lives may be at risk," Senator Specter said. "I applaud the Department of Homeland Security for providing this funding to help ensure that our Pennsylvania firefighting operations are functioning at their maximum potential." 
   This grant is part of the third round of Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) grants from the Office of State and Local Government Coordination and Preparedness and the United States Fire Administration's Assistance to Firefighter Grant Program. Congress approved $750 million in direct assistance for the 2004 program to support firefighters throughout the country. 
   This program is designed to assist fire departments and volunteer firefighter interest organizations to increase the number of firefighters and enhance their ability to ensure that their communities have adequate protection from fire and fire-related hazards. These five-year awards will help fire departments attain 24-hour staffing and meet minimum firefighter standards. SAFER grants will fund the hiring of firefighters and the recruitment and retention of volunteer firefighters.
   Contact: Robert Traynham, 202/224-0610; Scott Hoeflich, 202/224-9020.
 
 