SEN. SANTORUM TOURS MERCYHURST NORTH EAST CAMPUS, DELIVERS KEYNOTE ADDRESS TO WOMEN'S CARE CENTER IN ERIE COUNTY
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today toured Mercyhurst College, North East campus and then traveled to Erie to deliver the keynote address at the annual "Celebrate Life" banquet for the Women's Care Center of Erie County.  
   "We are very excited that a member of the Senate of Senator Santorum's caliber is interested in visiting our campus," said Dr. Brown, Mercyhurst College executive Vice President. "Senator Santorum has done a lot to help secure federal funding for Mercyhurst North East, including the Health and Safety Building and our criminal justice program." 
   Santorum toured the North East campus of Mercyhurst College and saw the new Health and Safety Building, which was partially funded by a fiscal year 2003 appropriation Santorum helped to secure. 
   The Senator also received an update on the development of the criminal justice program at Mercyhurst College North East. In 1996 Mercyhurst College began offering an Associate Degree in Criminal Justice. Since then, the program has grown from 15 to 133 students. Mercyhurst College is also the home of the Municipal Police Training Academy. 
   Santorum worked hard to secure $300,000 for upgrades to Mercyhurst College's criminal justice education and police training programs. The funding was part of a Department of Education grant from the fiscal year 2004 Omnibus Appropriations bill for the improvement of postsecondary education. 
   "Mercyhurst College is an excellent example of how a small private college is meeting public needs," said Santorum. "I am pleased to see the progress made on the Health and Safety Building as well as the improvements to the criminal justice program. Both of these will be a great benefit to northwestern Pennsylvania and Erie County." 
   Santorum also delivered the keynote address at the annual "Celebrate Life" banquet for the Women's Care Center of Erie County. The Women's Care Center is committed to meeting the needs of women who are faced with a crisis or unwanted pregnancy by providing supportive services and counseling. 
   "We are honored to have Senator Santorum as our featured speaker for the evening because of his dedication and strong voice in the Senate on behalf of women and their unborn children," said Brenda Newport, Executive Director of the Women's Care Center. 
   Santorum addressed the importance of protecting and preserving innocent life. He highlighted the Partial Birth Abortion Ban Act of 2003, which bans a procedure that has never been shown to be medically necessary to protect a woman's health. The ban was sponsored by Santorum and was passed overwhelmingly by the Congress and signed into law by President Bush in November of 2003. 
   The Senator also commented on the recent district court rulings from New York and Nebraska. While the courts ruled that the Partial Birth Abortion Ban Act was unconstitutional, the rulings were expected based on the precedents set by the Supreme Court. 
   "The case in New York has a very good record of evidence, which will ultimately be submitted to the Supreme Court for their reconsideration of a ban on partial birth abortion," said Santorum. "The judge in the New York case confirmed what Congress established - that partial birth abortion is a 'gruesome, brutal, barbaric, and uncivilized medical procedure' and that there is credible evidence that partial birth abortions subject fetuses to severe pain." 
   "This case also brought to light a significant piece of information - that in no case 'could the Plaintiffs point to a specific patient or actual circumstance' in which partial birth abortion was 'necessary to protect a woman's health'." 
   Santorum also emphasized the importance of organizations and services like the Women's Care Center. "Thank you for your commitment to protecting life. In the end, the debate over abortion will be won as individuals, families, churches and community groups reach out and support those in need, while educating the public about the tragedy of abortion. Working together, we can change the hearts and minds of the American people concerning these important pro-life issues."
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 