SEN. SANTORUM ANNOUNCES STAFF CHANGES IN WASHINGTON PRESS OFFICE
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today announced staff changes in his Washington, DC office.  
   Senator Santorum announced that Deputy Press Secretary Christine Shott will take over the role as Press Secretary. Shott, a native of Allentown, Pennsylvania, is a graduate of Allentown Central Catholic and attended Gettysburg College. Prior to joining Santorum's press office in February, Shott worked for several House Members including Congressman Randy Forbes (VA-04), Congresswoman Melissa Hart (PA-04) and Congressman Bill Goodling (PA-19). 
   Kristen Vanderpool, a native of Bloomsburg, Pennsylvania, has been promoted to Deputy Press Secretary. Vanderpool came to Washington in 2002 as an intern for both Pennsylvania Senators Arlen Specter and Rick Santorum. She has been with the Santorum office since January 2003 as Staff Assistant, Assistant to the Chief of Staff and most recently as Press Assistant. Vanderpool is a graduate of Bloomsburg High School and earned a B.A. in Broadcast Journalism and two minors in History and Political Science from Penn State University. 
   Assistant to the Chief of Staff Maureen Ryan will fill the position of Press Assistant. Ryan is a native of Danville, Pennsylvania and a graduate of Danville High School. She earned a B.A. in Communications and English from Duquesne University. Ryan got her start in the Santorum Pittsburgh office as an intern in 2003; she was hired in May 2003 on the Washington staff as a Staff Assistant. 
   Santorum also announced today that Liz Chapman, a native of Havertown, Pennsylvania, has been promoted to Writer. Chapman is a graduate of Haverford High School and Gordon College, Wenham, Massachusetts. She received a B.A. in Political Science and Communications, with an emphasis in journalism. Chapman has been on staff since September 2002 and has been a Staff Assistant, Assistant to the Chief of Staff, and most recently a Legislative Correspondent. 
   "I am pleased to have four intelligent and enthusiastic Pennsylvania natives serving in my Press Office in Washington. Christine, Kristen, Maureen, and Liz bring diverse communications experiences to the office and they will make a great press team," said Santorum. "I have every confidence that these staffers, under Christine's leadership, will serve the media and people of Pennsylvania with respect and integrity."
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 