SEN. SANTORUM REFLECTS ON THIRD ANNIVERSARY OF SEPT. 11 TERRORIST ATTACKS
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, issued the following statement reflecting on the third anniversary of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks against our nation:  
   "This year marks the third anniversary of the horrific terrorist attacks on our nation. For some, this is still a time of mourning, disbelief, and anger. For others, the last three years have been a time of renewed hope in the leadership of our country and in the shared responsibility we have as citizens to continue fighting for liberty. Though the terrorists struck our buildings, they did not destroy our freedom. 
   "We have poignant reminders of our call to duty after September 11, 2001. The Navy recently named a ship USS Somerset to honor the fearless and heroic passengers and crew of United Flight 93 that crashed on the fields of Shanksville, Pennsylvania. The naming of the USS Somerset symbolizes the sacrifice of the passengers on board and the generosity of those who provided aid and support to the families and friends of those who lost their lives. 
   "I am hopeful that as we remember the past we can also continue to look to the future. After three years, we have made considerable progress in making our nation more secure. Our homeland security has been strengthened. We have made vast improvements in securing our transportation systems, including our airports, rails, and ports. We have tightened our borders. 
   "There is still more work to be done. We are now prepared to make critical decisions to improve our intelligence capabilities and information sharing. The 9-11 Commission has assessed our past intelligence failures and provided us with recommendations to revise our intelligence system. 
   "I will never forget the bravery and sacrifice witnessed on that tragic day three years ago. I send my prayers out to all the families and friends of those who lost their lives. May God bless you and your families as we continue to work towards a safer world."
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 