SEN. SANTORUM RECOGNIZED AS COMMUNITY LEADER BY THURGOOD MARSHALL SCHOLARSHIP FUND
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, was awarded the 2004 Community Leadership Award from the Thurgood Marshall Scholarship Fund, in partnership with the Phi Beta Sigma Fraternity and the Zeta Phi Beta Sorority.  
   At an awards ceremony last evening, Senator Rick Santorum accepted the leadership award from President of the Thurgood Marshall Scholarship Fund, Dwayne Ashley. This award is presented annually to community, corporate and governmental leaders who have distinguished themselves through outstanding commitment and support of the mission of public Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCU's). 
   "I am honored to receive this award from the Thurgood Marshall Scholarship Fund, in conjunction with Phi Beta Sigma Fraternity and Zeta Phi Beta Sorority," said Santorum. "Under the leadership of President Dwayne Ashley, the Thurgood Marshall Scholarship Fund is helping young African Americans receive a quality education from some of our nation's top HBCU's." 
   Santorum has worked closely with HBCU's, including Cheyney University and Lincoln University, which are located in Pennsylvania. He has chaired the Historically Black Colleges and Universities Congressional Forum for the past two years on Capitol Hill. The Forum, founded five years ago by former Congressman J.C. Watts (R-OK), provides HBCU's the opportunity to learn more about what the federal government can do to help them achieve their goals and increase their capacity to meet research, academic and faculty development needs. The Forum also serves as a catalyst for the college presidents to learn more about pending legislation that will strengthen the HBCU's capacity building initiatives. 
   "When we created the Community Service Awards five years ago, we did so to honor individuals such as Senator Santorum for their extraordinary commitment to higher education as a means of ensuring our nation's continued strength," said Dwayne Ashley, president of Thurgood Marshall Scholarship Fund, Inc. "The awards event gave TMSF and our member schools the opportunity to recognize Senator Santorum's outstanding contributions to our mission of preparing new leaders and helping more than 200,000 students attending our member schools receive a quality education. His commitment is a great example of how one individual's contributions can make a tremendous impact." 
   For the past sixteen years, the Thurgood Marshall Scholarship Fund has been awarding merit-based scholarships and programmatic support to outstanding young people to attend the nation's public Historically Black Colleges and Universities. The Fund has awarded more than $50 million in scholarships and programmatic support, enabling 5,000 students to attend one of the 47 HBCU's in the United States. 
   Also honored at last night's Community Leadership Awards Reception was the Honorable Elaine L. Chao, Secretary of Labor, along with five other community and Congressional leaders. "Historically Black Colleges and Universities play a vital role in preparing our future leaders," said Santorum. "I will continue to work with my colleagues on Capitol Hill to help Historically Black Colleges and Universities in supporting their vision to enhance access and opportunities for all Americans."
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 