WITH AN EYE TOWARDS FISCAL DISCIPLINE
  This past week, President Bush laid out his budget for 2006, beginning Congress' annual appropriations process. Showing restraint on both discretionary and mandatory spending, President Bush put forth a $2.5 trillion budget with a 1 percent cut in spending for non-defense, non-homeland security accounts that proactively reduces the deficit, slows the growth of federal spending, cuts several ineffective programs, and provides tax relief. While I support the President's disciplined efforts to cut the federal deficit in half within five years, it is Congress' role to take thoughtful steps to strengthen several programs that benefit Pennsylvanians and their communities. 
   Specifically, the President's budget rated the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program as ineffective, and combined its funding with seventeen other community improvement and housing programs into one program under the Commerce Department. I understand the President's desire to eliminate programs that are inefficient and lack accountability, but when it comes to programs like CDBG, which are vital to our state, we should work to strengthen accountability rather than eliminate the program. CDBG has been extremely helpful in assisting Pennsylvania's local communities leverage millions of dollars of other funding for use in needed housing and community development.
   Also eliminated in the President's budget was the Hope VI program, which provides grants to Public Housing Authorities for rejuvenating severely distressed public housing units into safe, livable housing. I have strongly supported the HOPE VI program in the past and will support Congress's future efforts to increase funding for the HOPE VI program, which benefits our communities.
   The President should be commended for looking at the impact entitlement programs have on our federal budget. However, Congress must take a close look at the proposed restructuring of the Medicaid program, including $1.1 billion specific cuts to the program. It is unclear how these cuts will impact Pennsylvania, but given the significant role Medicaid plays in providing health care for 1.7 million Pennsylvanians, I have joined my colleagues as an original cosponsor of legislation, which would establish a Bipartisan Commission on Medicaid to review the proposed changes and recommend improvements before cutting funding to the program. 
   Congress must be thoughtful in our spending, however, having the nation's fourth largest highway system and an aging infrastructure that must sustain important trade and freight routes, Pennsylvania deserves adequate reimbursement for the disproportionate burden our roads bear. Although the President has proposed an overall increase for highway and transit programs, it is important that Pennsylvania receives its fair proportion of those dollars. Mass transit funding is also critical, not only for large cities such as Philadelphia and Pittsburgh, but for smaller towns with heavily traveled thoroughfares as well. 
   I applaud the President for significantly funding efforts to protect Americans from terrorism and providing our Armed Forces with additional resources, yet I am concerned about the lack of requested funding for Letterkenny Army Depot. Letterkenny has several needs, including improving access to storage units and the trucking of ammunition to forts and reserve units, that I am hopeful can be addressed this year. Additionally, the Virginia Class Submarine program and the C-130J aircraft program are two items that were targeted in the President's budget. The proposal to end the C-130J program would break a multi-year procurement arrangement and could end up costing taxpayers. 
   The President's budget does fund several programs that are vital to Pennsylvania and its economy. Important to the revitalization of Pennsylvania's neighborhoods, public health, and the restoration of our environment is funding for the abandoned mine program, brownfields grants, and energy tax incentives, which all received increased funding in the President's budget. The President's proposed budget may require Congress to reexamine several direct payment programs authorized by the 2002 Farm Bill; however, I remain committed to promoting fiscally responsible policies and bringing regional balance to our agriculture programs. To this end, I recently introduced a bill to extend the Milk Income Loss Contract program, S. 307, which I am pleased to see that the President saw fit to include in his budget.
   In the coming weeks, Congress will hold committee hearings on President Bush's 2006 proposal. As Congress sets its budget, I will continue to fight for Pennsylvania's interests-ensuring that our families and communities are able to make ends meet-while maintaining fiscal discipline. Through solid reform, continued tax relief, and support of helpful initiatives to the Commonwealth, we can revitalize Pennsylvania's communities.
 
 