SEN. SANTORUM URGES REPEAL OF TELEPHONE EXCISE TAX
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, sent a letter to U.S. Treasury Secretary John Snow concerning the three percent excise tax that all American telephone consumers must pay.  
   "This outdated and nonsensical tax is long overdue for repeal. It burdens one of the essential services relied upon by millions of American every day, not only for basic communications but also for emergency services," Senator Santorum stated in the letter. 
   Senator Santorum has been a strong advocate for repealing the telephone excise tax. In June 2005, Senator Santorum introduced S. 1321, the Telephone Excise Tax Repeal Act. This bill now has 15 cosponsors in the U.S. Senate, and the companion bill in the House of Representative has gained over 180 cosponsors. 
   In the letter to Secretary Snow, Senator Santorum notes that he has been closely monitoring the IRS's litigation over the telephone excise tax and that the IRS has lost all of its Federal appellate cases on the taxation of calling plans that are not based on both 'time and distance' as required by the law. Most recently, the IRS lost its appeal in the Third Circuit Court of Appeals. 
   "With this latest loss in the Third Circuit, the time has come for the IRS to stop applying this unfair - and apparently illegal - tax," Senator Santorum stated in the letter. 
   "Common sense dictates that repeal of the telephone excise tax is long overdue," said Senator Santorum. "The telephone tax is a regressive and unnecessary tax. I strongly urge the Treasury Department, under Secretary Snow's leadership, to support the full repeal of this tax. It is my hope that my Senate colleagues will also join me in supporting the Telephone Excise Tax Repeal Act." 
   The telephone excise tax is considered a regressive tax because lower-income individuals spend a higher percentage of their income on the taxed item than those with higher-incomes. A 1987 study by the CBO concluded that excise taxes on telephone service had a greater impact on low-income families than did excise taxes on alcoholic beverages and tobacco products. Studies have shown that individuals and families with income less than $10,000 spend almost 10 percent of their income on telephone bills, while individuals and families earning $50,000 spend only two percent of their income for telephone service. 
   The Joint Committee on Taxation stated in its January 2005 report "there is no compelling policy argument for imposing taxes on communications services." The Congressional Budget Office (CBO) took this a step further by stating in February 2005 that the tax "has harmful effects on economic policy."
 
 