SEN. SANTORUM MAKES STATEMENT ON FLOOR OF SENATE FOLLOWING NEWS OF VIOLENT DEATH OF CIVILIAN CONTRACTOR IN IRAQ
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today offered the following remarks on the floor of the U.S. Senate:  
   "Today I rise to talk about a civilian who was brutally murdered by a group of al-Qaida terrorists - as we are now seeing displayed on our television screens across America. This man's name is Nick Berg, he's 26 years old, and he's from West Chester, Pennsylvania, outside of Philadelphia. As described by an AP article that just came across my desk, a group of five al-Qaida terrorists, one of them purporting to be al-Zarqawi, who's the number two man in al-Qaida, wearing ski masks and scarves, stood over Mr. Berg, who had just given a statement as to who he was and where he was from. They then read a statement and proceeded to push this man on his side and I'm quoting here, 'cutting off his head with a large knife and then held the head out before the camera'." 
   "If anybody wants to know what we're fighting, and why we're fighting this war on terror, this is a very good example of it. Those who have seen the tape on television have described it as revolting and sickening. I will describe it as an outrage to the civilized world and one that we must strongly condemn and continue to respond as aggressively as possible in rooting out these terror cells and going after them where they are. And where they are in this case is in Iraq. This occurred in Iraq, he was a civilian contractor working in Iraq, his body was found just a couple of days ago on a bridge in Iraq." 
   "I would first and foremost like to express my sympathy to his parents, Michael and Suzanne Berg, who have gone through a very harrowing experience over the past couple of months when they did not know where their son was. For the past month they did not know his whereabouts and to find out about this tragic loss of their son in such a violent and horrific way and to not know and to see it described on television is a nightmare for any parent. To the Bergs, you certainly have my prayers and I know of those here in this chamber who share that sorrow. I yield the floor."
   Contact: Amy Hybels and Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 