SEN. SANTORUM INTRODUCES HEALTHCARE LEGISLATION TO ASSIST UNINSURED, SMALL BUSINESSES
  Sens. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, and Jim DeMint (R-SC), and members of the House of Representatives joined today at a press conference to discuss recently introduced legislation to enhance and encourage affordable healthcare coverage for uninsured and low-income individuals, as well as small business employers and their employees.  
   This healthcare tax legislation will help make health insurance more affordable for those who need it most by creating refundable tax credits that can be used to purchase traditional insurance or Health Savings Accounts (HSAs), addressing a long-standing barrier to affordable health insurance by eliminating the unfair tax bias against individuals who purchase their own healthcare coverage. Additionally, this healthcare tax legislation will provide a tax credit to small businesses who contribute money to an employee's HSA, and an above the line deduction for high-deductible health plans. 
   More than a million people currently receive health coverage through HSA-eligible health insurance plans - twice as many as six months ago. Also, the number of member companies offering HSA-eligible plans to employees has tripled in the last six months from twenty-nine in September 2004 to ninety-nine today. 
   "All Americans should have access to quality and affordable health care. This healthcare tax legislation will reach out to uninsured, low-income individuals and small businesses - those that have traditionally struggled to afford quality health care," said Senator Santorum. "This measure builds upon the success of HSAs by expanding the adoption of these consumer driven health plans so that individuals are empowered in their healthcare decisions and afforded ownership over their healthcare dollars. Over time, these healthcare assets can continue to grow tax free into a nest egg for future health expenses." 
   "This legislation is a step toward better, more flexible health care for Americans. I believe people will invest in something they can keep. HSAs will encourage people to be more responsible for their own health, make more rational decisions, and live healthier lives," said Senator DeMint. 
   "HSAs are already changing the face of health care by providing an affordable way for families to access care," House Chief Deputy Majority Whip Eric Cantor (R-VA) said. "This bill makes HSAs even more affordable by making premium payments tax deductible and giving small businesses tax credits for providing HSAs. This is sure to expand the use of this already attractive health care option." 
   "People are working hard and trying to get ahead - they just aren't working in jobs that offer health insurance - and today we have a solution," said Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX). "This legislation is perfectly targeted to help the 27% of working Texans who don't have health insurance." 
   "With this legislation, we are helping those who currently fall through the cracks: those who aren't covered through their employer, the self-employed, low-income people and small businesses that have difficulty affording coverage," Ryan said. "Many Americans are now discovering how they can finally afford good health care through HSAs, and this proposal will help more people access and make the most of this great health savings tool," Congressman Paul Ryan (R-WI) said. 
   "America is not doing enough to prevent a looming breakdown in our healthcare system. Providing tax credits that make health care more affordable can help us break the vicious cycle that begins with uninsured workers and their families avoiding medical treatment because they can't pay for it. When they get sicker and eventually must seek emergency treatment, the higher cost of that care ripples through the entire health system, raises the cost of treatment for all patients and fuels higher health insurance premiums. We can't let that go on any longer in America and we're here today to say that we won't," said Congressman J.D. Hayworth (R-AZ). 
   Last month Senator Santorum was joined by U.S Representatives Melissa Hart (R-PA-4) and Tim Murphy (R-PA-18) in Pittsburgh to discuss with Pennsylvanians the benefits of HSAs. HSAs empower individuals in their healthcare decisions and give them an asset that they own, control, and can use for their health care as they grow older.
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610; Wesley Denton, 202/224-6121; Geoff Embler, 202/225-2815; McCall Cameron, 202/225-4201; Larry VanHoose, 202/226-8715; Kate Matus, 202/226-7326.
 
 