RAISING GENERATION M
  If your family is like most others, your children are attracted to the latest television shows, video games, Internet sites, and other pop culture items as soon as they walk in the door from school. Our children are growing up in a very different time than we did-living and developing in a world dominated by the media. The Kaiser Family Foundation has reported that children spend an average of 6 ? hours a day with media. In fact, children spend more time with media than they spend with their parents, in physical activity, doing homework, or doing chores.  
   As a father of six young children, all under the age of 13, I too understand the constant struggle that parents face between balancing the needs of parents working longer hours, and making sure that they spend enough quality family time with their children. 
   The Kaiser Family Foundation has found that the total amount of media content young people are exposed to each day has increased by more than an hour over the past five years. Since 1999, the number of children who have Internet access at home increased from 47 to 74 percent, and children who go online for more than an hour a day increased from 5 to 22 percent. More startling is that 68 percent of all 8-18 year-olds have a television in their bedroom. Our children are soaking up incredible amounts of media content every day, at times checking email while watching television and listening to music. 
   As a father, I believe parents have the responsibility to examine the positive and negative effects media may have on our children-whether it encourages creativity in our children or possibly harmfully affects our children. In several cases, media does more hands-on parenting of our children than parents. However, there is insufficient information about how media, particularly the newer digital media, affects children's health, education, and development. America is a media-rich society, but despite the incredible amounts of information, we still lack the most important piece of all-what effect does media have on our children? 
   This week Senators Hillary Clinton (D-NY) and Joe Lieberman (D-CT) joined me in supporting the Children and Media Research Advancement Act (CAMRA). The CAMRA Act establishes a research program on children and media within the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development that will examine the role of media in the development of children and adolescents, with a particular focus on media content, format, length of exposure, age of the child, and nature of parental involvement. The research will cover all forms of electronic media, including television, movies, interactive video games, cell phones, and the Internet. 
   Providing parents and guardians with the most accurate information and current research regarding the impact media has on their children is essential. In spite of the lack of research, parents already feel very strongly about what is portrayed in the media. According to a recent study by Common Sense Media, approximately 9 out of 10 American parents believe today's media contribute to their own children becoming too materialistic, using more coarse and vulgar language, engaging in sexual activity at younger ages, experiencing a loss of innocence too early, and behaving in violent or anti-social ways. 
   We can research the positive and negative affects of media on our children, but we can also deter broadcasters from airing indecent or obscene broadcasts, as it is in the best interest of our society to protect children from harmful material. I strongly support The Broadcast Decency Enforcement Act of 2005, which focuses on raising fines for indecent broadcasting tenfold, to $325,000 per incident with a maximum cap of $3 million per day per station group owner. Several recent incidents of indecent broadcasting have further emphasized a need for this legislation. 
   The development of adolescents is largely dependent on the environmental influences that are present in a child's daily life. Media is such a prevalent and influential presence in our society that it is important that we understand the impact it has on our youth. 
   "Anything that takes up that much space in our lives," Vicky Rideout, a Kaiser Family Foundation Vice President said referring to media, "certainly deserves our full attention." 
   Hopefully, through a better understanding of the power of media, we can use it in a healthy and productive way to educate our children and give parents helpful tools to raise their children.
 
 