PET ANIMAL WELFARE STATUTE: PROTECTING AMERICANS, OUR PETS
  In the 1970s, Congress recognized the importance of regulating the commercial pet trade in order to protect companion animals and American consumers and implemented the dealer provisions of the Animal Welfare Act. Since its passage, this law has served its intended purpose. Today, however, the marketplace for animals is dramatically different than when the current animal dealer provisions were written - the Animal Welfare Act is outdated. Earlier this year, to counteract the influx of mistreated companion animals into the American marketplace, I introduced the bipartisan Pet Animal Welfare Statute (PAWS).  
   It is important to understand that the vast majority of animal dealers are conscientious persons who make every effort to treat their animals humanely and to comply with the law. But, unfortunately, there are some animal dealers who do not care properly for their animals and who seek to profit at the expense of the animals and the public. They exploit the weaknesses and loopholes in the current law to evade or ignore basic standards for the care and condition of animals. These substandard dealers give the entire pet industry a black eye, all the while preying upon the public. It is these unscrupulous animal dealers at which PAWS is targeted. 
   When the Animal Welfare Act was passed, only retail pet stores and small hobby and show breeders sold pets, so regulating dealers who sold to pet stores and exempting those who sold animals at retail made sense. With the advent of the Internet, mass national marketing channels, and importation of puppies for resale, that is no longer the case. There are a large number of unregulated dealers identical to those regulated by the Animal Welfare Act, save the fact they sell animals exclusively at retail. These are not the type of dealers that the exemptions were intended to benefit, and PAWS will ensure that these high volume retail sellers meet the same standards for the humane care and treatment of animals that breeders and brokers selling at wholesale have been meeting for almost 30 years. 
   Since its introduction, there has been a wealth of disinformation regarding PAWS that has led to some misconceptions about what this bill does and the motivations behind it. Recently, I chaired a committee hearing in order clear up some of these misunderstandings, advance the legislative process, and hopefully, ease some of the misgivings of those who have criticized the bill - I'd like to take the opportunity to do the same here. 
   The sporting community relies on their animals to perform in competitions, and most importantly, in the field. In no way is this bill intended to restrict the rights of sportsmen and hunters. Americans have hunted since our nation's founding, and for many of us, it is part of our heritage. Some who sell dogs for hunting purposes have expressed a concern that PAWS will force them to obey further regulations. This is not the case. PAWS exempts breeders who sell less than 25 dogs and cats per year, or sell from fewer than seven litters, which ever is greater. The vast majority of sportsmen, hobbyists, and show breeders are protected by this provision. 
   The purpose of the recent hearing, as well as the previous work with groups like the American Kennel Club, the Humane Society of the United States, and the American Veterinary Medical Association, is to understand the concerns and possible unintended consequences stemming from PAWS. During the hearing, several of these consequences were discussed, including adverse effects on animal rescue and shelter operations, inadvertent regulation of pet stores, and the ability of the Department of Agriculture to administer provisions in PAWS. Producing legislation is a process, not a single event. In light of these concerns, I will set forth a revised draft of my legislation that will ensure it is consistent with my intentions. This bill will not be advanced until these objections have been adequately addressed. 
   If enacted, PAWS will represent a major milestone in the history of animal protection in the United States. This legislation is not intended to restrict breeding or impose a hardship on rescuer and shelter organizations, and it specifically recognizes the importance of protecting small breeders and the non-commercial purebred dog and cat fancy from federal regulation. I believe that PAWS will protect small hobby and show breeders and the vast majority of compliant commercial breeders, as well as the public from those breeders and brokers who evade or fail to comply with the law. The purpose of this bill is simply to protect dogs, cats and consumers - not to restrict the ability of Americans to benefit from them, and that's exactly what I will ensure that it does.
   Contact: Tim Pearson, 202/224-0610.
 
 