SEN. SANTORUM DELIVERS $800,000 FOR TWO PHILADELPHIA HOMELESS PROGRAMS; DELIVERS KEYNOTE ADDRESS AT AMERICAN LEGION ANNUAL VETERAN'S DAY LUNCHEON
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today presented federal funding to two Philadelphia homeless programs, Project H.O.M.E and Impact Services Corporation.  
   These two programs, along with Veterans Place in Pittsburgh and Victory House in Bethlehem, are recipients of fiscal year 2005 Department of Veterans Affairs grants to public and private non-profit groups for programs assisting homeless veterans. Seventy-two grants were awarded nationwide totaling nearly $14 million. The funding is designated to create transitional housing that will provide new beds for homeless veterans. 
   "I am pleased that the Department of Veterans Affairs has chosen these two Philadelphia organizations to each receive $400,000 to care for some of our veterans who may be homeless," said Senator Santorum. "I have worked hard in the United States Senate to make sure that we provide the best care for all of our veterans, especially now as the cold Pennsylvania winter weather approaches it is critical that we try to get folks off the streets and provide them with shelter." 
   Senator Santorum has been concerned with the issue of homelessness, especially among those who have served our country's Armed Forces. In July of this year Senator Santorum introduced a bill to reauthorize the Interagency Council on Homelessness for two additional years. The Council consists of 18 federal agencies, including the Department of Veterans Affairs, and works to better coordinate the nation's response to homelessness. 
   Senator Santorum and Senator Larry Craig (R-ID) authored an amendment, which eventually became law, providing an additional $1.5 billion in emergency veterans health care funding for the Department of Veterans Affairs. These funds were added after the VA indicated a significant funding shortfall for the current fiscal year. 
   Following the grant presentation, Senator Santorum delivered the keynote speech at the annual American Legion Veteran's Day luncheon at the Union League of Philadelphia. On October 5, 2005 Joseph C. Hare, Chairman of the Armed Services Committee of the Union League and Peter Klenk, Commander of American Legion Post No. 405, invited Senator Santorum to be the keynote speaker for the event today. 
   "I cannot think of a better way to spend Veteran's Day than to have the opportunity to personally thank and acknowledge the men and women of the United States Armed Forces - both past and present," said Senator Santorum. "I encourage all of my fellow Pennsylvanians to take time today to thank our veterans and honor these heroes who have made tremendous sacrifices and dedicated their lives to protect the freedoms and liberties that we cherish today." 
   "We are extremely proud to have Senator Santorum as our Veteran's Day Keynote Speaker. The Senator's record of support for our military services and personnel is outstanding. This is a wonderful opportunity today to say 'Thank You' to our Vets, while sharing with the Senator our thoughts and concerns about the current state of the military services," said Rear Admiral Joseph C. Hare, Chairman of the Union League's Armed Services Committee. "We are especially pleased to be hosting a number of members of the 10th Mountain Division, and this event is a special opportunity for these veterans to share some time and conversation with one of our key leaders in Washington."
   Contact: Robert Traynham, 202/224-0610.
 
 