SEN. SANTORUM URGES PASSAGE OF LEGISLATION TO HELP THOSE AFFECTED BY RECENT HURRICANES
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, made remarks on the Floor of the United States Senate yesterday urging for passage of the Fiscal Year 2005 Military Contruction Appropriations bill to help states like Pennsylvania receive disaster assistance following recent hurricanes. Excerpts of the Senator's speech are below:  
   "Mr. President, I rise to say how disappointed I am that we are holding back vitally important pieces of legislation in the Senate for in some respects--I understand the political shows that we all put on before elections. I understand that. But we are holding back money from States such as Pennsylvania, Louisiana, Florida, and others that right now need resources to help recover from the hurricanes that hit us in the eastern part of the United States. We have individuals-not just one, now two-who are holding us from passing that legislation to get those needed resources the Senator from Alaska suggested are vitally needed for FEMA now to get those resources to people who need it now. 
   "I was on the phone the day before yesterday with my Governor. We were talking about the concern over the shortage of funds, the concern about the ability for FEMA to respond and get some of these businesses affected by floods in Pennsylvania up and going. The bill we have here on the floor right now, we could pass it right now and get this money into the hands of people in Pennsylvania, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Louisiana, Alabama, Mississippi, Florida, and other States that have been affected by the hurricanes over the last couple of months. We are being blocked because someone doesn't like a provision that takes money out of a program that was over funded, that is spending enormous amounts more than what it was intended to spend. "...But don't stop people who are in desperate need, who have to have furnaces for their homes as the weather turns cold in our area of the country, from having the resources necessary to respond to this disaster.
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 