SEN. SANTORUM AND DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE ANNOUNCE $1.28 MILLION INVESTMENT IN EAST STROUDSBURG
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, and U.S. Commerce Secretary Carlos M. Gutierrez today announced a $1.275 million Economic Development Administration (EDA) investment in the East Stroudsburg University Center for Research and Economic Development.  
   "I have worked hard to deliver federal funding that supports economic growth and development initiatives in my state. East Stroudsburg University is a major part of the growing economy in the Poconos and ESU is emerging as a leader in technology education. This investment is a way to reward the great work the University is doing," said Senator Santorum. "I am pleased to see the administration acknowledge the importance of continuing to invest in programs and expansions that will foster job creation and local revenue for communities. This technology facility is expected to create hundreds of new jobs and generate more than $50 million in further investment in the facility." 
   "President Bush and I are committed to partnering with communities to promote innovation and competitiveness. Through economic development grants like these, the Commerce Department will continue to encourage investments in local areas, grow the economy and create jobs," said Secretary Gutierrez. 
   Senator Santorum was able to secure $200,000 in Fiscal Year 2005 for computer infrastructure development at East Stroudsburg University Center for Research and Economic Development. On August 4, 2004 Senators Santorum and Specter urged EDA Regional Director, Paul Raetsch to provide the EDA grant for this project. More recently, on April 6, 2005 Senator Santorum joined Senator Specter again urging Assistant Secretary for Commerce and EDA administrator, David Sampson to provide this grant. 
   EDA serves as a venture capital resource to meet the economic development needs of distressed communities throughout the United States. EDA's mission is to lead the federal economic development agenda by promoting innovation and competitiveness, preparing American regions for growth and success in the worldwide economy. This investment in East Stroudsburg will help build a technology business facility that is expected to create 565 jobs and generate $53.7 million in private investment. 
   Additional information on how EDA investments are helping distressed communities create a positive and sustainable economic future can be accessed at: http://www.eda.gov.
   Contact: Robert Traynham, 202/224-0610.
 
 