SEN. SANTORUM: AMERICA - NATION OF IMMIGRANTS, NATION OF LAWS
  My father was born in Riva de la Garda, a small tourist town in Northern Italy. In 1930, when he was just a young boy, he traveled across an ocean to join his father in search of the promises America offered. Twenty-eight years later I was born, here in America, the son of an immigrant.
   For the last 11 years, I have had the enormous privilege of representing Pennsylvania in the United States Senate. I'm not sure my father, even during his wildest dreams as he crossed the Atlantic so many years ago, would have imagined his children would lead the lives that we have. That we have been able to achieve so much is a testament to the greatness of America. And there are millions of first-generation American-born citizens across this country that have similar stories. Why? Because immigration is and always has been an integral part of our national identity. The oft-quoted statement is true-we are a nation of immigrants. 
   But we are also a nation of laws. America was founded on respect for the rule of law, and it is the rule of law that has guided our nation through countless difficult times since its inception. The stark truth is that those who enter our country illegally disrespect the laws that are at the very heart of our society and erode confidence in our immigration system.
   So the debate that is currently being hashed out across the country about our immigration policy is a debate critically important to our future. America must have a comprehensive immigration system that recognizes this important truth-a nation of immigrants and a nation of laws are not mutually exclusive entities.
   The first, and central, component to any immigration reform must be securing our borders. In the post 9/11 world in which we live, our national security depends on our border security. We need to know who is coming into the country, where they are from, and what they are doing here. And while much of the focus in this debate is on our southern border, securing our borders means securing every point of access into our country, whether that is by land from Canada or Mexico, through our airports or through our seaports. Until we properly secure our borders, we remain vulnerable to criminals, terrorists, and individuals who mean to harm Americans and are able to enter our country undetected and unimpeded. Before we proceed to any further reform, Congress must ensure our border patrol agents have the resources, the manpower, and the technology to effectively do their jobs.
   Second, any reforms that we institute cannot discourage legal immigrants from entering our nation. America was built on the hard work and innovation of immigrants like my father and grandfather, and our country continues to thrive on the new ideas and fresh energy that many legal immigrants bring. In fact, it is my belief that we should expand the number of legal immigrants we enable to come here-they are a vital, vibrant part of our economy and our society. But if we allow those who enter America illegally all the benefits of citizenship, it erodes any incentive to follow our laws and come here legally. To allow amnesty for illegal immigrants would completely undermine our immigration system, and as such, is not remotely close to a solution to the current problem.
   Third, we cannot ignore that there are currently millions of immigrants already here who arrived here illegally. We must find a way to address those individuals in a way that is humane and realistic, but does not provide amnesty. We should create a viable temporary worker program, one that will ensure that fair wages and fair labor practices prevail. Any true reform will bring those illegal workers in from the edges of society in which they currently reside, and a temporary worker program should accomplish just that.
   American citizenship is an incredible privilege. We must never forget that. We must also be careful not to forget the millions from around the world who have patiently waited their turn to legally immigrate and receive citizenship. And finally, we need to remember that our first obligation is to protect those who are American citizens right now, and secure our borders.
 
 