SEN. SANTORUM LENDS SUPPORT TO IMPROVE TECHNOLOGY IN HIGHER EDUCATION
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today cosponsored the Minority Serving Institution Digital and Wireless Technology Opportunity Act of 2005, legislation seeking to address the technology gap that exists at many Minority Serving Institutions (MSIs) by establishing a new grant program providing up to $250 million to help Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs), Hispanic Serving Institutions, and Tribal Colleges bridge the digital divide.  
   "There is an increasing dependence on technology in the classroom and being digitally connected has become critical to advancement in education," said Senator Santorum. "Unfortunately, many minority students are at a disadvantage because their schools lack access to information technology tools. As a result, it is important that all institutions of higher education provide their students with access to the most current information technology and equipment. I am proud to lend my support for this legislation, which will provide funding for Historically Black Colleges and Universities, and other MSIs, to gain networking capabilities, acquire and update equipment, and provide technology training." 
   A study completed by the Department of Commerce and the National Association for Equal Opportunity in Higher Education showed that most HBCUs do not have high-speed Internet access, and only 3% of these colleges and universities indicated that financial aid was available to help their students close the computer ownership gap. 
   Santorum has worked closely with HBCUs throughout his tenure in the United States Senate, including Cheyney University and Lincoln University, both located in Pennsylvania. He has chaired the Historically Black Colleges and Universities Congressional Forum for the past two years on Capitol Hill. The Forum, founded five years ago by former Congressman J.C. Watts (R-OK), provides HBCUs the opportunity to learn more about what the federal government can do to help them achieve their goals and increase their capacity to meet research, academic and faculty development needs. The Forum also serves as a catalyst for the college presidents to learn more about pending legislation that will strengthen the HBCUs capacity building initiatives.
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 