SEN. SANTORUM JOINS OFFICIAL MEDICARE BUS TOUR IN BELLEVUE
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today joined Department of Health and Human Services Secretary Mike Leavitt and the Official Medicare Rx Bus Tour in the neighborhood of Bellevue in Pittsburgh. The bus tour is sponsored by the Department of Health and Human Services and is traveling nationwide to help individuals better understand prescription drug coverage, review plans, answer questions, and help seniors enroll in the Medicare approved prescription drug plan that best meets their healthcare needs. 
   "I encourage all those who are eligible for the Medicare prescription drug coverage to take advantage of this opportunity to enroll in an affordable prescription drug plan to meet their specific healthcare needs," said Senator Santorum. "The goal of events, like today's in Bellevue, is to get people enrolled before the May 15th deadline. The earlier folks enroll, the earlier they start saving money and gain the peace of mind that comes with knowing that they have coverage against catastrophic drug costs. Enrollment before the May 15th deadline ensures the lowest premiums, after that date the premium costs will rise for those who wait to enroll and do not otherwise have coverage."
   Starting in January, prescription drug coverage was made available to all Americans with Medicare. Every person with Medicare - no matter how they get their health care today or whether they have existing drug coverage - is eligible for drug coverage under a Medicare prescription drug plan. The drug plans are available in all parts of the country, and cover brand name and generic drugs. Prescriptions can be obtained from neighborhood pharmacies and through mail order. More than 27 million Medicare beneficiaries have signed up for this new benefit so far.
   Senator Santorum is a member of the Senate Finance Committee and the Senate Special Committee on Aging, and has actively been monitoring the improvements being implemented to the Medicare program as a result of the Medicare Modernization Act (MMA).
   "Millions of Americans are already seeing the benefits of being enrolled in the program. When I talk to Pennsylvanians who are already enrolled, they say they are seeing big savings and have very positive feedback about the program. One of my greatest responsibilities as a United States Senator is advocating on behalf of Pennsylvania's seniors to protect their health so they can age with the comfort and dignity they deserve. I was proud to support the Medicare Modernization Act and I am committed to ensuring that Pennsylvanians are provided with a smooth transition if they choose to enroll in a new prescription drug plan that will protect their health and save them money on prescription drugs," said Senator Santorum.
 
 