SEN. SANTORUM GIVES KEYNOTE ADDRESS ON IRAQ
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today delivered a major speech to more than five hundred cadets and faculty at the Valley Forge Military Academy and College that addressed his call for a fresh look at our successes and challenges regarding operations in Iraq.  
   Senator Santorum, like many Americans, is focused on what the nation can and must do to achieve success in Iraq and deter the efforts of insurgents and terrorists looking to disrupt the goals of achieving peace and democracy in the Middle East. 
   In his speech today Senator Santorum praised the men and women serving in our Armed Forces at home and in Iraq, encouraging them in their mission to protect our freedom. The Senator also reiterated the importance of success in Iraq; detailed a benchmark for what needs to be accomplished in Iraq; and laid out a vision for a third party to look objectively at the goals we must achieve and how we can achieve them. 
   "Today I laid out what the United States needs to accomplish in Iraq and that our objectives and successes in Iraq should be investigated by an independent panel - not members of Congress, not individuals from the White House, but by individuals who have already served their country in various ways and seek only to take a fresh look at Iraq and determine how to best move forward," said Senator Santorum. "At this point, the key to our future success in Iraq is to move forward based on a common objective and not a political agenda. I have asked the White House to cooperate in efforts to make this independent panel a reality." 
   On January 5, 2006 Senator Santorum sent a letter to President Bush concerning both the current military operations in Iraq and the need to better assess and communicate the progress toward our laudable goal of establishing a stable democracy in the Middle East. (Go to http://santorum.senate.gov to view a copy of the letter.) 
   "We need men and women of character who understand the importance of victory in this war and who are willing to put the country first. This group should be comprised of both former military and civilian leaders from prior administrations and Congress, as well as from think tanks and academia. This group will provide a beneficial new perspective and important tactical recommendations. And, it will be a valuable resource as our nation, once again, stands up to the forces of tyranny and oppression, protecting Americans and giving millions of people the gifts of hope and freedom," said Senator Santorum.
 
 