SEN. SANTORUM TALKS ABOUT FEDERAL HIGHWAY FUNDING WITH EMPLOYEES AT INTERLOCKING DECK SYSTEMS INTERNATIONAL IN PITTSBURGH
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA) today toured and met with employees at Interlocking Deck Systems International (IDSI) in Pittsburgh. IDSI is a local manufacturer of steel bridge decking and other grating and steel products.  
   "Everyone at IDSI is incredibly honored that Senator Santorum has shown such an interest in our little Pennsylvania industry. His continuing support for steel grid reinforced concrete bridge decks will undoubtedly result in longer lasting, more cost-effective bridge structures that will benefit the entire United States, as well as significantly increasing the number of manufacturing jobs in Pennsylvania," said Alex Simakas, President of IDSI. 
   Last year in the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, and Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (SAFETEA-LU), Senator Santorum fought to keep Pennsylvania a donee state under the bill's formula, which means the Commonwealth will receive more from the Highway Trust Fund than it contributes. The previous version of the bill, considered in the 108th Congress, made Pennsylvania a donor state with a rate of return of $.97 for every dollar it paid into the fund. The SAFETEA-LU bill Senator Santorum helped to pass ensures that Pennsylvania will never receive less than $1.13 for every dollar contributed. 
   "Small businesses like IDSI are crucial to Pennsylvania's economic vitality. Throughout my tenure in the United States Senate, I have been a strong advocate for small businesses. In March 2006, I introduced the Second-Stage Small Business Development Act, which would create new opportunities for small businesses by helping them overcome operational challenges that threaten to slow their growth, ultimately helping them build upon their previous successes," said Senator Santorum. 
   Ensuring that Pennsylvania's small businesses have access to quality and affordable health care remains one of the Senator's highest legislative priorities. To that end, in May 2005, Senator Santorum introduced S. 978, the Healthcare Tax Relief for the Uninsured Act, which includes provisions to help small businesses offer health insurance to their employees. Additionally, Senator Santorum is a cosponsor of S. 406, the Small Business Health Fairness Act, and he will continue to support legislative measures that would help provide needed relief to Pennsylvania's small business employees.
 
 