SEN. SANTORUM ADDRESSES 24TH ANNUAL LAW ENFORCEMENT APPRECIATION DAY LUNCHEON IN PHILADELPHIA
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, was the featured speaker and guest of honor at the 24th Annual Law Enforcement Appreciation Day (LEAD) luncheon sponsored by the Citizens Crime Commission of the Delaware Valley.  
   "I appreciate this opportunity to express my gratitude to the brave men and women who have demonstrated their dedication to law enforcement," said Senator Santorum. "I recognize the invaluable service and sacrifice that law enforcement personnel provide the good of our communities. As Pennsylvanians, we are indebted to those who have made a career of protecting our communities. With the help of the Citizens Crime Commission, we're working to decrease crime and improve the quality of life for citizens of the Delaware Valley." 
   "The Citizens Crime Commission appreciates Senator Santorum taking time out of his busy schedule to honor the men and women in blue throughout the Delaware Valley who risk their lives on a daily basis," said Santo Montecalvo, Vice President of the Citizens Crime Commission. 
   LEAD is an annual event honoring law enforcement officials from all levels of government for the sacrifices that they make for the community. At today's luncheon, the Second Annual Freedom Award was presented to Thomas Hamill, the civilian who escaped from Iraqi custody after 24 days in captivity. Philadelphia Police Commissioner Sylvester Johnson received the prestigious Presidential Award for his extensive work with the Citizens Crime Commission. 
   The Citizens Crime Commission is a regionally focused, non-profit advisory and educational organization that works together with law enforcement agencies and the judicial system. The Citizens Crime Commission operates with a staff of specially trained justice professionals, attorneys and police officers. 
   Senator Santorum has been a strong supporter of legislation that positively affects law enforcement officers. In 2004, the Senator was an original cosponsor of The Law Enforcement Officers Safety Act, which was signed into law by President George W. Bush. The Law Enforcement Officers Safety Act allows officers with photographic identification, including retired officers, to carry concealed firearms when traveling outside their jurisdiction. The Law Enforcement Officers Safety law now enables thousands of equipped, trained, and certified officers to continuously serve and protect our communities regardless of jurisdiction.
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 