SENS. SANTORUM, LIEBERMAN INTRODUCE COLON CANCER SCREEN FOR LIFE ACT
  Sens. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference and Joe Lieberman (D-CT) today introduced the Colon Cancer Screen for Life Act. Other original cosponsors of the legislation include Sens. Susan Collins (R-ME), Jeff Bingaman (D-NM), Olympia Snowe (R-ME), Ben Nelson (D-NE), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Jim Jeffords (I-VT), and Mary Landrieu (D-LA).  
   The Colon Cancer Screen for Life Act aims to improve utilization of lifesaving colorectal cancer screening among Medicare beneficiaries and also to improve Medicare coverage of procedures. 
   The Colon Cancer Screen for Life Act, which Senator Lieberman first introduced in 2002, aims to improve utilization of lifesaving colorectal cancer screening among Medicare beneficiaries and also to improve Medicare coverage of procedures. 
   "It is important for Americans to be aware that colon cancer is the third most commonly diagnosed cancer in both men and women and the second most common cause of cancer-related death in the United States. However, through early detection and proper treatment colon cancer patients have a much higher recovery and survival rate," said Senator Santorum. "This legislation will improve Medicare coverage of early screenings, preoperative visits, and consultations prior to related procedures. Colon cancer is a tragic and complicated disease, and we must take the appropriate steps to prevent and treat this disease through colorectal cancer screening and early detection that does not burden patients or healthcare providers." 
   "Heightened awareness and greater access to treatment are working, but we can do more," said Senator Lieberman. "Modern technology has blessed us with extremely accurate screening tools, in particular the colonoscopy - which results in higher colon cancer identification rates and better long-term survival rates due to early detection. Colon cancer is a formidable foe, but this bill will make a difference in the fight against it." 
   If passed, this bipartisan bill will restore reimbursement for colorectal cancer screening and diagnostic tests to the level established in 1997 when the Medicare screening benefit was first enacted. It would also exempt colorectal cancer screening procedures from the customary Medicare deductible requirement, and provide Medicare coverage for a preoperative visit or consultation prior to a screening colonoscopy.
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610; Casey Aden-Wansbury, 202/224-0975.
 
 