SEN. SANTORUM DELIVERS KEYNOTE AT TECHNOLOGY COUNCIL OF CENTRAL PENNSYLVANIA TECHNOLOGY AND MEDICAL SUMMIT
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA) today was in Hershey, Dauphin County to speak at the Technology Council of Central Pennsylvania's Technology and Medical Summit and in Shippensburg, Cumberland County at JLG Industries, Inc. 
   Senator Santorum delivered the keynote speech at the Technology Council of Central Pennsylvania's Technology and Medical Summit addressing the importance of Health Information Technology (HIT). Further implementation of HIT will reduce medical errors, lower healthcare costs, and significantly improve the quality of patient care.  
   "Since being elected to the Senate in 1994, I have traveled to all sixty-seven counties each year and many of those visits have included meetings with healthcare providers throughout Pennsylvania. I have learned first-hand the struggles they face; one of the larger obstacles is implementing electronic medical records and information systems," said Senator Santorum. "I have supported federal initiatives to spur the development and implementation of electronic medical record systems, which have the potential to greatly improve the quality of care and significantly reduce overall healthcare costs, two very important healthcare goals." 
   Later, Senator Santorum toured JLG Industries, Inc. in Shippensburg, Cumberland County and also met with employees. JLG Industries, Inc. is the world's leading producer of access equipment including aerial work platforms and telehandlers. There are 339 employees at the Shippensburg facility and 2,762 employees statewide in Pennsylvania. 
   "We are honored to have Senator Santorum visit JLG's Shippensburg facility and show his continued support of companies that are creating jobs and economic growth in Pennsylvania, and whose products and services also support our troops overseas. We are pleased that the Senator took the time to meet our team and gain a better understanding of JLG Industries," said David Peacock, Vice President of Government Products and Programs at JLG Industries, Inc. 
   "I am pleased to be at JLG Industries and see the fine work Pennsylvanians continue to produce for the global market. It is companies like JLG who keep our nation competitive and provide quality jobs in our growing economy," said Senator Santorum. 
   Senator Santorum highlighted positive job and economic growth, as well as JLG Industries support for the troops. JLG not only manufactures aerial work platforms, but at their plant in neighboring Fulton County they manufacture the All Terrain Lifting Army System (ATLAS). The ATLAS is a self-deployable rough terrain, manually operated forklift capable of operating efficiently in nuclear, biological, and chemical environments. 
   "We are living in different times, our country is constantly under threat from Islamic extremists who seek to terrorize us by attacking Americans at home and abroad. One of their goals is to destroy our economy and weaken the stability of our markets. However, Americans have remained resilient against their threats and as a result, we have a strong economy," Senator Santorum stated. "More Americans are working today than ever before, and they have more opportunities for better jobs in high-wage fields. The economy has created nearly 5.3 million jobs since August 2003 - 32 straight months of job growth and economic expansion. The economy grew 4.8% in the first quarter, the fastest rate in two-and-a-half years and the fastest of any major industrialized nation. Tax revenues are surging. Productivity is up, hourly wages are up, business investment is up, construction spending is up, consumer spending is up, and consumer confidence is up." 
   Yesterday the Senate voted to approve the Tax Increase Prevention and Reconciliation Act, a bill that will prevent tax increases on millions of hardworking Americans. Since this tax relief was originally passed in 2003, the unemployment rate has dropped from 6.1% to the current 4.7%, lower than the averages of the last four decades. Specifically this bill ensures that in Pennsylvania alone 346,668 families and individuals will not have their taxes increase because we extend the relief under the Alternative Minimum Tax - and that number is estimated to double in 2006.
 
 