SEN. SANTORUM DELIVERS MAJOR FEDERAL FUNDING TO GENEVA COLLEGE FOR CAMPUS IMPROVEMENTS
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today presented federal funding to Dr. Kenneth Smith, the President of Geneva College during the halftime at Geneva College's football game versus Urbana University of Ohio.  
   "I am pleased to deliver $1,345,000 to Geneva College for upgrades and much needed improvements that will make the roads leading to campus and the entrance to campus much safer," said Senator Santorum. "Geneva College is the largest employer in Beaver Falls and already has so much of which to be proud. It is important that the campus is well maintained so the school can continue to attract students and be a positive force to the Beaver County economy." 
   Senator Santorum secured significant federal funding through the SAFETEA-LU bill to improve the safety of PA State Route 18 and construct a new entrance to Geneva College. The college is also expected to use the federal funding for new pedestrian walkways, landscaping, new parking facilities, and a welcome center. 
   "Senator Santorum understands how critical this project is, both for Geneva and Beaver Falls. We are blessed to have someone like Rick Santorum fighting for the area's needs," said Dr. Smith. 
   President Bush recently signed the SAFETEA-LU bill, which also provides a federal funding formula on which states receive a return on money paid in federal gasoline taxes. Through his leadership position as Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, Senator Santorum fought to keep Pennsylvania a donee state under the bill's formula, which means the Commonwealth will receive more from the Highway Trust Fund than it contributes. The previous version of the bill, considered in the 108th Congress, made Pennsylvania a donor state with a rate of return of $.97 for every dollar it paid into the fund. The SAFETEA-LU bill Senator Santorum helped to pass ensures that Pennsylvania will never receive less than $1.13 for every dollar contributed.
   Contact: Robert Traynham, 202/224-0610.
 
 