PROTECTING PENNSYLVANIANS' HEALTH, SAVINGS: SEN. SANTORUM HOLDS TOWN HALL MEETING TO DISCUSS NEW MEDICARE DRUG COVERAGE
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today held a town hall meeting at the Aiken Elementary School in Pittsburgh to discuss the new Medicare prescription drug coverage. The town hall meeting was co-hosted by Pennsylvania State Sen. John Pippy, and Landmarks Home Health presented information about the various drug plan options that are available to seniors.  
   "Today's town hall meeting presents a wonderful opportunity to share the good news with Pennsylvanians that beginning January 1, 2006, Medicare will offer voluntary prescription drug coverage for the first time," said Senator Santorum. "Whether or not a senior currently has high drug costs, enrolling in the new Medicare drug coverage means gaining the peace of mind of knowing that their health and pocketbooks are protected against such costs." 
   In 2003, Congress passed the Medicare Modernization Act, which Senator Santorum supported, greatly improving the overall care of America's seniors through the Medicare program by emphasizing preventive measures and including affordable Medicare drug coverage. Beginning November 15th, seniors enrolled in Medicare will have the opportunity to choose from several prescription drug plans in their area. Seniors that enroll in a new drug plan by December 31st will enjoy prescription drug coverage beginning January 1, 2006. Enrollment can be done over the phone, online or at community enrollment events that will take place in the weeks ahead. 
   "I encourage all seniors, and their friends and family members helping them, to carefully consider the various options so they can make an informed choice in order to ensure that the plan they select will best meet their healthcare needs," said Senator Santorum. 
   Seniors with limited income and resources may qualify for extra help for Medicare drug coverage. Those who qualify for extra help can expect to pay little or no premium, deductibles, or co-payments. If a senior believes they may be eligible for extra help and has not yet been in contact with the Social Security Administration, they should immediately do so. 
   "One of my greatest responsibilities as a United States Senator is advocating on behalf on Pennsylvania's seniors to protect their health so they can age with the comfort and dignity they deserve. Throughout my tenure in the Senate, I have fought to improve the Medicare program for seniors and I will continue to do so. I was proud to support legislation that provides voluntary drug coverage through Medicare to help those enrolled in Medicare protect their health and save money on prescription drugs," said Senator Santorum. 
   For questions about the coverage, call 1-800-MEDICARE (1-800-633-4227), or visit www.Medicare.gov.
 
 