SEN. SANTORUM, SPECTER ANNOUNCE SENATE AUTHORIZATION OF $10 MILLION FOR BENJAMIN FRANKLIN NATIONAL MEMORIAL
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, and Sen. Arlen Specter (R-PA), a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, announced today that during the weekend session, the United States Senate passed a bill that would authorize up to $10 million in federal funding for the Benjamin Franklin National Memorial in Philadelphia (S.1852). Sens. Santorum and Specter cosponsored the bill.  
   "This major tourist attraction within the great City of Philadelphia is an important part of Pennsylvania's heritage, and I am pleased that the United States Senate has authorized funding for the Benjamin Franklin National Memorial," Senator Santorum said. "This funding will support repair, rehabilitation and the historic preservation of the Memorial. The refurbished Memorial will continue to celebrate and inspire Ben Franklin's pursuit and development of science and technology, as well as encourage education." 
   "This memorial will commemorate the birth of a great Pennsylvanian and a patriotic American," Senator Specter said. "Benjamin Franklin made Philadelphia his home and a centerpiece in the formation of the United States. I thank my colleagues in the Senate for approving this legislation so that a proper tribute for Mr. Franklin may be provided." 
   The legislation authorizes federal funding for the rehabilitation of the Benjamin Franklin National Memorial and the development of an exhibit to commemorate the 300th anniversary of Benjamin Franklin's birth. Congress designated the Memorial Hall, located at The Franklin Institute in Philadelphia, as a National Memorial in 1972. This funding comes at an important time as The Franklin Institute begins planning for the national celebration in Philadelphia in January 2006. 
   The bill passed the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee on September 15, 2004 and passed the full Senate on October 10, 2004. The bill now awaits action on the House floor before going to the President to be signed.
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610. 
 
 