SENS. SANTORUM, SPECTER ANNOUNCE SENATE APPROVAL OF LAND CONSERVATION EFFORTS WITHIN HIGHLANDS REGION
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, and Sen. Arlen Specter (R-PA), a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, announced today that the United States Senate approved the Highlands Conservation Act (H.R.1964) during the weekend session.  
   "I am pleased that the United States Senate has recognized preservation of the Highlands region as an important conservation initiative," Senator Santorum said. "The Pennsylvania Highlands are comprised of acres of unspoiled, mountainous woodland that arc across the most densely settled and fastest-growing portions of the state. This national treasure provides drinking water and recreational opportunities for millions of citizens in the Commonwealth from the areas surrounding Philadelphia, Harrisburg, York, Lancaster, and the Lehigh Valley." 
   "The resources the Highlands region provides-agriculturally, historically, and recreationally-are unique and invaluable," said Senator Specter. "With this legislation, endangered sections of this vital area will be protected and preserved for future generations. I applaud my colleagues in the Senate for recognizing the importance of these conservation efforts." 
   Senators Santorum and Specter have been working with their colleagues from Connecticut, New York and New Jersey to pass this legislation, which authorizes $100 million over 10 years for land conservation projects located within the Highlands region. The legislation allows the Secretaries of Agriculture and Interior to work with Highlands states, local communities, local organizations, and willing land sellers to preserve and protect high priority conservation lands in the Highlands region. 
   The Highlands region is an environmentally unique area that encompasses more than 2 million acres extending from eastern Pennsylvania through the states of New Jersey and New York to northwestern Connecticut. An estimated one in twelve citizens of the United States lives within a two-hour drive of the Highlands region. 
   The Highlands region forms a greenbelt adjacent to the Philadelphia-New York City-Hartford urban corridor. It offers the opportunity to preserve water, forest and agricultural resources, wildlife habitat, recreational areas, and historic sites, and encourages sustainable economic growth and development in a fiscally and environmentally sound manner.
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610. 
 
 