IN THE WAKE OF A TRAGEDY
  Words cannot express the sense of loss and hopelessness that the victims of Hurricane Katrina are feeling right now. Thousands of residents of Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama and Florida have had their lives completely torn apart by the winds and rain of the greatest natural disaster in the history of our nation. The City of New Orleans is still underwater. As America mourns those lost in this tragedy, it is vital that we join together to assist those still suffering-those without homes, without food, without clothing-in anyway possible.  
   As has happened so often in the past, Americans have responded to this tragedy in a manner that is truly inspirational. One constant of any disaster, natural or otherwise, that occurs around the world is the intense desire of Americans to help. We saw this following the terrorist attacks of September 11. We saw this following the tsunami in Asia. We're seeing it now. Reading and hearing reports of the thousands of Americans who have rushed to the disaster areas and reached deep into their pockets to assist in the relief efforts, I am filled with an incredible sense of pride in the strength and compassion of our fellow Americans. 
   Always a tremendous presence of hope in the wake of any disaster, many charities have already established an infrastructure in the Gulf Coast to provide aid to displaced residents. The Southern Baptist Convention has joined with the American Red Cross to distribute food and shelter to over 160,000 Katrina evacuees. The Salvation Army has been entrenched in the Gulf Coast region since this catastrophe struck, with hundreds of employees and volunteers stationed at mobile canteens capable of serving 5,000 meals a day. Many Catholic charities are ready and able to provide technical assistance teams to help local charities in the impacted area with their response efforts, and Second Harvest, the largest domestic hunger-relief organization in the nation, has respond in full force. 
   The citizens of Pennsylvania have also answered the call. From the moment that disaster struck, individuals, families, and organizations across our state have made great efforts to assist those in need. At the order of the Governor, the Pennsylvania Army and Air National Guard has been mobilized, sending 2,500 members to support their counterparts in Louisiana, Alabama, Mississippi and Florida. Brother's Brother foundation, an international charity based out of Pittsburgh, has donated a tractor-trailer full of new shoes, clothing and hygiene goods. Carnegie Mellon University has offered to assist Tulane University in any possible way, including housing and educating displaced students. This list goes on and on. I am proud that my home state has responded to this tragedy with such a timely and generous outpouring of support. 
   In addition to the contributions of private citizens and organizations, there is much that the federal government can do in order to ensure that the victims of Katrina receive adequate support both now, in the immediate aftermath of this tragedy, and as they struggle to restore the lives that were destroyed. Congress has already approved $62.3 billion in emergency funding to aid in the relief effort, and it appears that the President will request additional funding moving forward. As a member of the Senate Leadership, I will continue to push for the allocation of all funds necessary to keep these victims safe and to rebuild the devastated regions of the Gulf Coast. 
   Moving forward, it will be important to study the response to this disaster and to better understand what went right and what went wrong. For now, however, the biggest responsibility we have is to protect as many of the victims as possible. This responsibility extends to all Americans, public servants and private citizens alike. As Pennsylvania's United States Senator, I take this responsibility extremely seriously, and intend to do all that is in my power to ensure that the recovery from Hurricane Katrina is carried out as efficiently, effectively, and humanely as possible.
   Contact: Tim Pearson, 202/224-0610.
 
 