SEN. SANTORUM MEETS WITH PHILADELPHIA ANIMAL CARE AND CONTROL ASSOCIATION, ALLIANCE FOR PHILADELPHIA'S ANIMALS MEMBERS
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, met with the Executive Director Tara Derby-Perrin and Board Members of the Philadelphia Animal Care and Control Association and the Alliance for Philadelphia's Animals. Sen. Santorum discussed his recently introduced legislation, the Pet Animal Welfare Statute (PAWS), bipartisan legislation aimed to address the lack of regulatory oversight that has allowed some in the pet industry to operate below the acceptable care standards for pets.  
   "I appreciate this opportunity to hear from folks who are dedicated to reducing neglect and mistreatment of our companion animals," said Senator Santorum. "It is disturbing to see the number of breeders who are careless in their responsibilities of breeding dogs in a healthy and humane environment. Breeding and raising dogs without respect to the animal's welfare guarantees bad results for the unknowing owner, and for the health of the dog and her puppies. I look forward to working to garner even more support for PAWS and eventually to passing this legislation in the Senate." 
   Senator Santorum has been instrumental in efforts to provide the proper care and treatment of animals in breeding facilities. In the 107th Congress, Senator Santorum introduced the Puppy Protection Act, which was passed by the Senate and was included in the 2002 Farm bill, but was removed from the Farm bill before final passage. Senator Santorum is a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee and Chairman of the Subcommittee on Research, Nutrition and General Legislation, which has jurisdiction over this issue. 
   Later at the National Constitution Center Senator Santorum presented young Pennsylvanians ages 14 through 23 with the Congressional Award, which is the U.S. Congress' non-partisan award acknowledging a youth's commitment in four program areas: volunteer public service, personal development, physical fitness, and expedition/exploration. 
   "I would like to commend these outstanding students for unselfishly putting their needs aside and putting others first," said Senator Santorum. "The Congressional Award provides young people with an opportunity to contribute to their communities through volunteer service. Even at a young age, these men and women are giving back to their communities by helping others in need." 
   Congress established the Congressional Award in 1979 to recognize initiative, achievement and service in young people. It began as a bipartisan effort in both the United States Senate and the House of Representatives.
   Contact: Robert Traynham, 202/224-0610.
 
 