SEN. SANTORUM HONORS UNITED AIRLINES FLIGHT 93 PASSENGERS, CREW WHO LOST THEIR LIVES ON SEPT. 11, 2001
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, joined Sen. Kent Conrad (D-ND) in introducing a bipartisan resolution honoring the passengers and crew whose lives were taken aboard United Airlines Flight 93 on September 11, 2001. Santorum submitted the following statement to the Congressional Record today upon introduction of this resolution to the U.S. Senate:  
   Mr. President, I rise today with Senator Conrad as a proud cosponsor of a resolution which recognizes the immense bravery of the crew and passengers on Flight 93. Over three and one-half years have passed since September 11, 2001, but we, the American people, have not forgotten the bravery and selflessness that was shown by our fellow citizens on that day. 
   During the 108th Congress, the 9/11 Commission investigated the events that took place on September 11, 2001, including Flight 93's crash in Somerset County, Pennsylvania. As a result of a series of Senate hearings held to evaluate and gain a clearer understanding of the 9/11 Commission's findings, the actions of Flight 93's passengers and crew have become increasingly evident. We know with near certainty now that the terrorists had plans of causing severe destruction to either the White House or the Capitol Building. 
   Having realized through phone calls to loved ones that three other planes had already been crashed that morning by terrorists, the passengers on Flight 93 acted quickly and collaboratively to overtake the hijackers and force them to crash the plane into a rural part of Pennsylvania, keeping the plane's intended target safe from harm. 
   As a result of the 9/11 Commission's findings, we conclude that America is indebted to the heroic actions of those on Flight 93, who showed great bravery so that many other lives could be spared from ruin. 
   We who work here in the Capitol are particularly indebted to those on board Flight 93. In addition to saving the lives of thousands, the passengers on Flight 93 ensured the preservation of one of the greatest symbols of America's freedom and democracy. 
   In an effort to recognize and honor the heroes on Flight 93, I am proud to introduce this resolution with Senator Conrad. This resolution is an expression of our deep gratitude for what those on Flight 93 did for each of us here in our nation's capital, as well as an expression of sorrow and condolence to their families and friends. Additionally, this resolution provides for a place in the Capitol Building to be memorialized in the name of the crew and passengers of Flight 93, with a remembrance plaque placed at the location. 
   This day presents an opportunity to remember all of those who died on September 11, 2001. Additionally, our volunteers, first responders, and the American people deserve a heartfelt "thank you" for the strength and strong resolve they showed in the face of destructive, cowardly acts. 
   I hope that all of my colleagues will join with Senator Conrad and me in this bipartisan effort to honor the crew and passengers on Flight 93 for what they did on that infamous day in America's history. May their selfless actions, taken for us and the American people, never be forgotten. 
   The resolution honors the passengers and crew of United Airlines Flight 93 who overtook the hijackers, forcing them to crash the plane in a rural area in Somerset County, Pennsylvania. Their courageous actions prevented the hijackers from carrying out what the 9/11 Commission found to be their most likely plan of harming the U.S. Capitol or White House. The resolution calls for a plaque to be displayed in a designated location within the Capitol Building to memorialize the heroic efforts of these men and women.
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610 . 
 
 