SEN. SANTORUM, TRANSPORTATION SECRETARY MINETA KICK OFF CHILD PASSENGER SAFETY WEEK, RAISE AWARENESS OF CHILD CAR SEAT SAFETY
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference and U.S. Department of Transportation Secretary, Norman Mineta, today kicked off Child Passenger Safety Week at the Children's Hospital of Philadelphia. The Senator and the Secretary toured the emergency department and also participated in a booster seat demonstration.  
   Child Passenger Safety Week is February 13-18. The main objective this year is to remind parents and caregivers responsible for children traveling in motor vehicles that if children have outgrown their car seat but are less than 4'9" tall, they are encouraged to be in a booster seat. In Pennsylvania children under the age of 4 are required to use a child restraint device. Children 4 to 8 years of age are required to use a booster seat. To take a five step test to find out if a child is ready to ride without a booster seat in Pennsylvania go to http://www.psp.state.pa.us/psp/cwp/view.asp?A=310&Q=165399. 
   "Like many parents, Karen's and my number one priority is, and always will be, the health and safety of our six children. Statistics show that children injured in car accidents were often not properly secured. We know young children and infants need to be in car seats, but often we overlook our older children who may still need to use a booster seat to keep them safe from additional injury during an accident," said Senator Santorum. "I encourage Pennsylvanians to go to www.boosterseat.gov to learn more about height and weight requirements for car and booster seats, as well as information about how to properly install them. Proper installation is crucial so the equipment is actually effective in protecting our children." 
   The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration estimates that only 10-20 percent of children ages 4 to 8 who should be using booster seats to protect them are actually in them. This puts children at an unnecessary risk of being injured or killed in crashes because they are riding in an adult safety belt, which doesn't properly fit or protect them. 
   For more information on Child Passenger Safety Week go to http://www.nhtsa.dot.gov/. For more information on booster seat safety go to http://www.boosterseat.gov/.
 
 