SEN. SANTORUM DELIVERS FEDERAL FUNDING FOR COMPLETION OF MONTOUR TRAIL; ALSO RECEIVES "MAN OF THE YEAR" AWARD
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, delivered federal funding in Moon Township for the completion of the Montour Trail. The Senator also received the "Man of the Year" Award from the Constructors Association of Western Pennsylvania (CAWP) and the Western Pennsylvania Heavy and Highway Industry Advancement Program (H2AP) for his work on behalf of Pennsylvania on the Safe, Accountable, Flexible and Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (SAFETEA-LU).  
   The Montour Trail is a bicycle and pedestrian trail that runs from Coraopolis to Clairton, Pennsylvania. Dennis Pfeiffer, President of the Montour Trail Council and Ned Williams, Chairman of the Engineering and Construction Committee of the Montour Trail Council, joined the Senator for the check presentation. 
   "I am pleased to provide federal funding through the SAFETEA-LU bill for the completion of the Montour Trail. Funding for trails is important in order to keep Pennsylvanians connected with the environment and nature. Many people especially from urban areas where there isn't much open space, escape from the confines of the city and enjoy space to walk, run, bike, cross-country ski and other activities," said Senator Santorum. "This trail is conveniently located about fifteen miles from the city and not far from the airport and some great shopping. It is easily accessible and a great place to take the family and make a day of it out on the trail and then grab a bite to eat at the nearby restaurants." 
   "The funding Senator Rick Santorum has secured will enable the Montour Trail to start work on closing a significant 2? mile gap of the Montour Trail main line in Washington County. This gap between Peters Township at Rt. 19 and Cecil Township at Chartiers Creek is a significant construction challenge, because five new bridges will be built and an additional two will be refurbished. The Montour Trail Council is targeting fall of this year to go to bid for construction of this section, which is at Montour Trail mile 30 to 32.5," said Dennis Pfeiffer President, Montour Trail Council. 
   Following the check presentation Steve Muck, President of the CAWP and Rich Barcaskey, Executive Director of the CAWP, presented Senator Santorum with the "CAWP/H2AP Construction Man of the Year" award, to recognize his efforts to protect and maintain Pennsylvania's rate of return during the passage of the SAFETEA-LU bill. 
   The SAFETEA-LU bill reauthorizes federal funding for surface transportation programs through fiscal year 2009. It also provides a federal funding formula on which states receive a return on money paid in federal gasoline taxes. 
   "In the last federal highway funding bill, Pennsylvania received $1.17 for every dollar contributed to the highway trust fund. At the conclusion of the last federal highway funding bill, national experts advised the Constructors Association that with the retirement of Congressman Shuster, the chairman of the House Transportation Committee, Pennsylvania would likely become a donor state, receiving less than a dollar for every dollar contributed. This would have meant a 20-25% reduction in federal highway funding for Pennsylvania, which would result in more potholes, deteriorating, unsafe highways, and higher vehicle maintenance costs for Pennsylvanians," said Steve Muck, President of CAWP. "Senator Santorum stepped in, voting against the initial highway funding bill and worked with the Administration to make certain Pennsylvania received 19% more highway funding than in the previous bill. The Board of Governors of the Constructors Association recognizes Senator Santorum's efforts on behalf of all Pennsylvanians." 
   Senator Santorum fought to keep Pennsylvania a donee state under the bill's formula, which means the Commonwealth will receive more from the Highway Trust Fund than it contributes. The previous version of the bill, considered in the 108th Congress, made Pennsylvania a donor state with a rate of return of $.97 for every dollar it paid into the fund. The SAFETEA-LU bill Senator Santorum helped to pass ensures that Pennsylvania will never receive less than $1.13 for every dollar contributed to the fund. 
   Later, Senator Santorum delivered the convocation and offered brief remarks at the acceptance of his award of recognition at the 72nd CAWP/H2AP Annual Dinner; approximately 800 people were in attendance. Previous recipients of the "CAWP/H2AP Man of the Year" award include U.S. Representatives Bud Shuster and Frank Mascara, PA State Senator Barry Stout, County Commissioner Tom Forrester and PA Secretaries of Transportation Tom Larson and Brad Mallory.
 
 