SEN. SANTORUM DISCUSSES FEDERAL FUNDING FOR BENJAMIN FRANKLIN NATIONAL MEMORIAL, DELIVERS KEYNOTE ADDRESS
  Sen. Santorum Discusses Federal Funding for Benjamin Franklin National Memorial and Delivers Keynote Address at "Medicaid Matters to Children" Conference. 
   Senator Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today gave the keynote address at a conference sponsored by The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia and the National Association of Children's Hospitals, titled "Medicaid Matters to Children: How Medicaid Can Help Drive Quality Improvement to Pediatrics." Senator Santorum is a member of the Senate Finance Committee, which has jurisdiction over the Medicaid program. 
   "From first hand experience, my wife Karen and I know how wonderful and supportive the clinical staff and medical services are at The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia. This is a special institution that provides quality care to patients and their families," said Senator Santorum. "As a member of the Senate Finance Committee and knowing the critical role Medicaid plays in providing funding for children's hospitals, I am always looking for ways to increase quality and accountability in Medicaid. We need to strengthen and improve the Medicaid program for our nation's children, including eliminating fraud, waste, and abuse from the Medicaid program; wasted dollars mean fewer dollars available to help sick children." 
   Also in Philadelphia, Senator Santorum visited the Franklin Institute to celebrate the 300th birthday of Benjamin Franklin. The Senator discussed the legislation he cosponsored with Senator Arlen Specter (R-PA), the Benjamin Franklin National Memorial Commemoration Act of 2005. 
   "This year we honor the 300th birthday of a great Pennsylvanian and a distinguished scientist, statesman, inventor and diplomat by making certain that our national memorial to Benjamin Franklin remains intact and accessible to the public," said Senator Santorum. "Senator Specter and I have worked very hard on this initiative so the Franklin Institute could receive this much needed federal support to help ease the burden of maintaining this national treasure." 
   The legislation was also passed by the U.S. House of Representatives and authorizes the Secretary of the Interior to provide a grant to the Franklin Institute of Philadelphia to: 
   * Rehabilitate the Benjamin Franklin National Memorial, including the Franklin statue in Philadelphia. 
   * Develop an interpretive exhibit relating to Benjamin Franklin to be displayed at a museum adjacent to the Benjamin Franklin National Memorial.
 
 