SEN. SANTORUM'S EFFORTS TO IMPROVE BORDER SECURITY BLOCKED BY SENATE DEMOCRATS
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today offered an amendment to H.R. 5441, the Homeland Security Appropriations Act that would increase the number of border patrol agents from 2,000 to 2,500. The Administration has requested 2,500 new border patrol agents; however the current bill, combined with the enacted supplemental, provides funding for only 2,000 new agents.  
   "In the post 9/11 world we live in, our national security depends on our border security and that primarily depends on ensuring that we have an adequate number of border patrol agents," said Senator Santorum. "The President and the Department of Homeland Security have requested additional border patrol agents, and it is vital to our national security that the Senate come through and fulfill this request. My amendment would have fulfilled the full request for 2,500 border patrol agents in a fiscally responsible way that did not increase the deficit or exceed the budget caps. I am extremely disappointed that Senate Democrats have used procedural gimmicks to block funding for 500 additional border patrol agents. When it comes to national security, it is certainly not a time for political games." 
   Senator Santorum's amendment was offset by expanding a program that allows seniors to access the equity in their homes through reverse mortgages to meet their expenses at a time when they have a reduced income. The provisions enjoy wide, bipartisan support including that of the AARP and Seniors Plus. 
   "It is disheartening that instead of adopting an amendment that was a win-win situation for both secure borders and assistance for seniors that Senate Democrats resorted to procedural obstacles to block progress on both issues," said Senator Santorum. 
   Throughout the Senate debate on immigration, Senator Santorum has consistently emphasized the importance of securing the borders of the United States. In June 2006, Senator Santorum introduced the Border Security First Act, S. 3564. The bill would provide increased assets for controlling the United States borders including more inspectors, marshals, and border patrol agents on both the northern and southern borders. The bill also calls for increased surveillance, new checkpoints and ports of entry, and increased fencing and vehicle barriers - all in an effort to control the U.S. borders.
 
 