SEN. SANTORUM, SECRETARY OF INTERIOR IN ALTOONA TO DISCUSS CONTINUED FUNDING FOR ABANDONED MINE LAND RECLAMATION
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, and Department of Interior Secretary, Gale Norton, were at the Horseshoe Curve in Altoona, Blair County today to discuss the importance of reauthorizing federal funding for the Abandoned Mine Land (AML) fund. They were joined by Donna Fisher, District Manager of the Blair County Conservation District; and John Dawes, Administrator of the Western PA Watershed Program.  
   Last month Senator Santorum urged the Chairman of the U.S. Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources to reauthorize of the AML fund. Since its inception, the AML fund has provided a valuable resource to keep Pennsylvania's streams and lands clean in the wake of mining. 
   "It is crucial that we reauthorize the AML fund. Our state has the most abandoned mine land sites in the nation and has utilized the fund to improve the quality of our environment," said Senator Santorum. "AML sites in Pennsylvania cover more than 189,000 acres of land and approximately 3,100 miles of streams. In Blair County alone there are twelve AML sites totaling 766 acres of land. If not properly reclaimed and restored these lands pose hazards to our communities and families." 
   "We are going to continue to follow Senator Santorum's lead in restoring abandoned mine lands in Pennsylvania. We are going to keep using the best technology to turn scarred areas into places of stewardship," said Secretary Norton. 
   "The environmental leadership of Pennsylvania has been working on reauthorization for two years. The Western PA Watershed Program, the Pennsylvania Environmental Council, the Western PA Conservancy, Mountain Watershed Association, Penn Future, the Coalitions for Abandoned Mine Reclamation and hundreds of watershed associations represented by the Pennsylvania Organization for Watersheds and Rivers, are interested in a good Abandoned Mine Lands Program," said John Dawes, Administrator of the Western PA Watershed Program. "We appreciate the support and leadership Senator Santorum has given to the re-authorization of the AML fund and look forward to Congress passing the re-authorization." 
   Senator Santorum was also in McConnellsburg, Fulton County to tour the Tri-state Community Health Center, which is currently under construction in McConnellsburg. The new health care facility is expected to create twenty-four new jobs and bring new physicians to the region. Senator Santorum has visited many hospitals and care centers throughout Pennsylvania to address issues impacting the quality of health care in his home state. Senator Santorum has discussed issues such as long-term care for seniors, medical liability reform, the rising costs of health insurance, Medicare Part D, and prescription drug importation. 
   Attached is the statement for the record from Senator Santorum to the Chairman of the U.S. Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources 
   Statement 
   Senator Rick Santorum 
  Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources 
  September 27, 2005 
   Mr. Chairman, my strong support for the reauthorization of the Abandoned Mine Land (AML) fund brings me to submit this statement for the Committee's record. 
   Since its inception, the AML fund has provided a valuable resource in the cleansing of our nation's streams and lands in the wake of mining exploration. My home state of Pennsylvania, in fact, has the most abandoned mine land sites in the nation and has utilized the Fund to improve the quality of our environment. It is evident that more needs to be done to fix this problem. 
   I am proud to represent the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania that has been one of our nation's leaders in the reclamation of abandoned mine lands. Pennsylvania has been working hard to reclaim its abandoned mines and has completed hundreds of stream pollution abatement projects. Despite the successes seen through the implementation of Pennsylvania's initiatives, there is a clear necessity to reauthorize the federal AML fund. According to the National Abandoned Mine Land Inventory, my home Commonwealth of Pennsylvania has over $1 billion worth of Priority 1 and 2 abandoned mine land sites. 
   These statistics should not come as a surprise to your committee. As you are aware, AML problems are primarily located in states with high historic production. Historic production records show that the eastern United States accounts for 94 percent of all of the country's AML problems. Pennsylvania is no exception. The pressing situation facing our state today is that one-third of all national mining legacy problems are in Pennsylvania. Abandoned coalmines have adversely impacted at least 44 of Pennsylvania's 67 counties, covering 189,000 acres of land and approximately 3,100 miles of streams. 
   I recognize the difficulty in assessing and properly allocating funds to address all of our nation's AML sites. However, I believe that across the nation and especially in Pennsylvania, there is a pressing need to more equitably shift the funding priority from current production sites to historic production sites. This would ensure that all abandoned mines could begin to be restored and re-utilized in an environmentally friendly and expeditious manner. 
   While the economic costs associated with reclaiming AML sites has increased, the human toll has also mounted in recent years. Because of the prevalence of AML sites throughout our nation, deaths associated with these sites have been far too commonplace. Last year, in Pennsylvania alone, five fatalities were associated with AML sites. In my opinion, this is five too many. 
   Given the large-scale damage and dangers experienced by my constituents, I believe it is essential that the reauthorization of the AML fund protect coalfield communities and restore damaged natural resources. It is my great hope that the experiences of my constituents and the coal-mining heritage of my Commonwealth will weigh heavily as your committee continues the process of reauthorizing the AML fund. 
   For these reasons, Mr. Chairman, I am pleased that you and your committee have taken up this important issue nearly a year before the fund expires. I look forward to working with you and your committee as this progress continues. As the mining legacy in my home state shows, AML sites impact the safety of communities, affect environmental quality, and hinder economic progress. It is essential to my Commonwealth and my constituents that we extend and reform the abandoned mine land reclamation program for the safety of our nation, the safety of our environment, and the safety of our economy.
   Contact: Robert Traynham, 202/224-0610
 
 