SEN. SANTORUM JOINS SENATE COLLEAGUES TO HAIL ANTI-METHAMPHETAMINE LEGISLATION IN PATRIOT ACT CONFERENCE REPORT
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today joined U.S. Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-TN), Sen.  
 Arlen Specter (R-PA), Sen. Jim Talent (R-MO) and Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) at a press conference to highlight the inclusion of anti-methamphetamine provisions in the Patriot Act conference report. The senators praised the inclusion of the Combat Meth Act, which provides resources to local law enforcement to combat the illegal production and distribution of meth by restricting the sale of the primary ingredients to cook meth, enhancing international enforcement of meth trafficking, increasing community awareness and providing services to those affected by the spread of meth. 
   "I am pleased to join together in a bipartisan way with Senators Frist, Specter, Talent and Feinstein to support this important legislation," said Senator Santorum, a member of the bipartisan Senate Anti-Meth Caucus. "According to the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy, methamphetamine is the primary illegal drug being manufactured in Pennsylvania. Although the availability of methampehetamine has garnered much attention in the midwestern and western United States, investigations and reports from state and local law enforcement confirm the eastward movement of methamphetamine production into Pennsylvania. Specifically, at time when reports of clandestine methamphetamine laboratory incidents are decreasing, the number of such reports in Pennsylvania are increasing. I hope the Senate will enact this legislation to continue to provide the necessary tools for law enforcement and communities to effectively address this growing problem." 
   The senators were joined by representatives from both law enforcement and the legal community, including the Fraternal Order of Police and the National Association of District Attorneys to discuss the Combat Meth Act.
 
 