SEN. SANTORUM URGES CAREFUL DELIBERATION ON DRUG IMPORTATION
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today called on the Senate to exercise restraint in the debate over the importation of prescription drugs. Santorum cautioned, "Ensuring the safety of our national prescription drug supply is of the utmost importance in protecting American lives, and providing Americans with the medicines they need."  
   Santorum noted a June 17 report by the General Accounting Office that found that a shipment that was supposed to contain the pain medicine OxyContin was received in a CD case wrapped in brown paper, devoid of warning labels or instructions. Another was shipped inside a sealed aluminum can enclosed in a box labeled "Gold Dye and Stain Remover Wax." The Washington Policy Center also recently found that even the drugs sold by Canadian-based Internet pharmacies could actually be from Iran, Argentina, South Africa or Brazil. 
   In addition, a Food and Drug Administration (FDA) analysis, released today, revealed that three commonly prescribed drugs purchased from a website advertised as Canadian showed that so-called "Canadian Generics" bought from the Web site were fake, substandard and potentially dangerous. The products purchased were so-called "generic" versions of Viagra, Lipitor, and Ambien. 
   "The current system is far from perfect, but by supporting the importation of drugs, the situation could become significantly worse by allowing a flood of unregulated pharmaceuticals to come pouring into the United States, many of which can be harmful and some even deadly," Santorum said in a statement as the Senate Judiciary Committee held a hearing on the issue. 
   "As a member of the Senate Finance Committee, which has jurisdiction over the Medicare program, I am very concerned about the health care needs of senior citizens in Pennsylvania," said Santorum. "The Medicare Modernization Act of 2004, signed into law last fall, is beginning to lower the price Americans pay for medications. The discount card and $600 credit offers relief for eligible seniors who struggle with limited budgets and the high costs of their medicines. As tempting as the low prices of imported drugs are, the risks are significant, and not worth taking." 
   Former New York Major Rudy Giuliani testified at today's hearing and addressed Republican Senators this afternoon.
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 