SEN. SANTORUM COSPONSORS LEGISLATION TO ASSIST PUBLIC HOUSING AUTHORITIES
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today cosponsored bipartisan legislation that would expand and make permanent the Moving to Work (MTW) program - a HUD program that allows public housing authorities (PHAs) to develop local approaches to encourage self-sufficiency and boost housing choices for low-income families. The Moving to Work Charter Program Act of 2006, introduced by Sen. John Sununu (R-NH), would permanently establish the MTW program, expanding it to make up to 250 PHAs nationwide eligible to participate.  
   "As a longtime supporter of the Moving to Work Demonstration Program, I am proud to cosponsor this important legislation that will make the program permanent and give local housing authorities additional flexibility so they can better serve their low-income communities. This bill will also ensure that current MTW agencies will no longer regularly need to seek extensions of their MTW designations," said Senator Santorum. "The Moving to Work Program has proven successful in Philadelphia and Pittsburgh. I look forward to swift passage of this bill to expand the program and allow other housing authorities to take advantage of this initiative." 
   The MTW program has been successful in giving PHAs flexibility in encouraging employment and homeownership; establishing reasonable rent policies; providing incentives to families with children for participation in job training, educational programs, or programs that assist people to obtain employment and become economically self-sufficient; and enabling PHAs to focus on their core housing mission by eliminating burdensome reporting requirements. 
   The Moving to Work Charter Program Act of 2006 has been endorsed by the Public Housing Authorities Directors Association, the Council of Large Public Housing Authorities, and the National Association of Housing and Redevelopment Officials. 
   Throughout his 11 years in the Senate, Senator Santorum has been an advocate for Pennsylvania state and local housing authorities. Most recently, Senator Santorum announced that he is a cosponsor of a bill to reauthorize HOPE VI - a program intended to revitalize public housing. This bill will also promote sustainable connections between the revitalization of public housing and local schools, improve the living environment for public housing residents, revitalize severely distressed public housing sites, provide housing that will avoid or decrease the concentration of very low-income families, and build sustainable communities.
 
 