SEN. SANTORUM MEETS WITH DOCTORS, ADMINISTRATORS AT SOMERSET HOSPITAL
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today met with doctors and administrators at Somerset Hospital. Sen. Santorum is working to alleviate the medical liability crisis in Pennsylvania and for equitable Medicare reimbursement for Pennsylvania hospitals.  
   "We are pleased to have Senator Santorum come to Somerset Hospital today and express interest in the work we are doing to provide quality care to folks in the Somerset area. We are glad that he could take the time to listen to our vision and concerns for health care in Pennsylvania," said Michael Farrell, CEO of Somerset Hospital. 
   In May 2006 Senator Santorum introduced legislation to ensure that women and babies have the access to care they deserve. The bill, S. 23 - the Healthy Mothers and Healthy Babies Access to Care Act - would cap non-economic damages, thus reducing medical liability costs for providers and increasing access to medical care for patients. The bill will not limit recovery of any economic damages. The benefit for Pennsylvanians is that when the cost of liability insurance premiums goes down, patient access, quality health care, and affordability goes up 
   "There is a medical liability crisis in America. Frivolous lawsuits have driven up medical liability insurance premiums, restricting and in some cases abolishing patients' access to quality healthcare - particularly obstetrical and gynecological services," said Senator Santorum. "This crisis has led many physicians to severely restrict the scope of their practices, and some have been forced to leave their practice entirely. These changes are having a direct impact on Pennsylvanians, dangerously limiting the access that Pennsylvania women have to the quality healthcare providers they need." 
   In just six years, from 1998 to 2004, the number of permanent full-time equivalent physicians has fallen from 36,500 to 32,000. This decline is largely due to the rising cost of medical liability insurance. Pennsylvania has one of the highest liability payouts per physician, at $16,000, compared to the national average of $5,000. It is estimated that by 2010, Pennsylvania could face a shortfall of nearly 10,000 physicians based upon current trends related to supply and demand. 
   Ob/Gyn providers have been among the hardest hit with skyrocketing medical liability insurance costs. According to a survey conducted by the American Association of Medical Colleges, only 28 percent of Ob/Gyn residents trained in Pennsylvania planned to stay and practice in Pennsylvania once they completed their residencies. 
   Also, in an effort to keep high quality doctors and nurses throughout Pennsylvania, Senator Santorum has consistently supported initiatives to ensure equitable reimbursement for Pennsylvania's hospitals and healthcare providers. Hospitals rely on financial reimbursement from Medicare to provide quality health care to patients and pay competitive wages to employees. Senator Santorum continues to work to ensure that Pennsylvania hospitals have fair and equitable Medicare reimbursement, which is critical for ensuring that patients across Pennsylvania have access to medical care. Senator Santorum is a member of the Senate Finance Committee, which has jurisdiction over these issues.
 
 