SEN. SANTORUM HOLDS ANTI-POVERTY FORUM AT SUNDAY BREAKFAST RESCUE MISSION
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today was in Philadelphia to hold an anti-poverty forum with community leaders. The Senator was joined by Claude Allen, Assistant to the President on Domestic Policy and Dick McMillen, Executive Director of the Sunday Breakfast Association.  
   Among the many anti-poverty initiatives the Senator discussed were the CARE (Charity, Aid, Recovery and Empowerment) Act of 2005, the Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, Homeownership Tax Credits, and KIDS Savings Accounts. Many of these legislative initiatives sponsored by Senator Santorum enjoy bipartisan support in the U.S. Senate. For more information on any of these initiatives go to http://santorum.senate.gov. 
   "I want to thank the Sunday Breakfast Rescue Mission for hosting this event today. The work you do here is truly a blessing for the community and an excellent example of tangible results," said Senator Santorum. "I am proud to support organizations like the Sunday Breakfast Rescue Mission through bipartisan legislative initiatives like the CARE Act. I have been working hard with my colleagues in the U.S. Senate on both sides of the aisle to pass this legislation that empowers families in need, community and faith-based organizations by encouraging giving, saving and economic fairness." 
   The bipartisan CARE Act of 2005 is cosponsored by Senators Bill Frist (R-TN), Orrin Hatch (R-UT), Dick Lugar (R-IN), Daniel Inouye (D-HI), Jim Bunning (R-KY), Norm Coleman (R-MN) and Gordon Smith (R-OR). If enacted, S. 1780 would: 
   * Provide incentives for an estimated $2 billion worth of food donations from farmers, restaurants, and corporations to help those in need. American's Second Harvest estimates that this is the equivalent of 878 million meals for hungry Americans over 10 years. This incentive is strongly supported by food banks, farm bureaus and hunger advocacy groups around the country. 
   * Provide 900,000 low-income, working Americans the opportunity to build assets through matched savings accounts, called Individual Development Accounts (IDAs) to purchase a home, expand educational opportunity, or start a small business. 
   * Provide incentives for individuals to give tax-free contributions from their Individual Retirement Accounts for charitable purposes, which will help a wide range of charities including educational institutions. This provision not only spurs charitable giving but it is likely to make higher education more accessible and affordable. 
   Following the forum Senator Santorum joined other volunteers to help serve lunch at the Mission and launch the Mission's Great Thanksgiving Banquet Food Drive. The Sunday Breakfast Rescue Mission is a not for profit housing shelter for homeless men that provides job training and placement, as well as other services such as a place to sleep and warm meals. This faith-based organization serves three meals a day, 365 days a year; last month alone, more than 13,000 meals were served to those in need. 
   "We are very pleased Senator Santorum decided to come to Sunday Breakfast Rescue Mission to serve a meal and to launch our Great Thanksgiving Banquet Food Drive. I have appreciated his efforts to pass the CARE Act as well as his support of rescue missions and other non-profits across the state, he truly cares about the less fortunate," said Dick McMillen.
   Contact: Robert Traynham, 202/224-0610
 
 