SEN. SANTORUM, REP. WELDON DELIVER $5.3 MILLION OF FEDERAL FUNDING TO MARKET STREET GATEWAY PROJECT IN UPPER DARBY
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, and Rep. Curt Weldon (R-PA-7) today were in Upper Darby to deliver federal funding to Upper Darby Township for a parking garage, which is part of the Market Street Gateway Project recommendations.  
   Senator Santorum successfully secured funding for the garage in the Safe, Accountable, Flexible and Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (SAFETEA-LU), a transportation funding bill which reauthorizes federal funding for surface transportation programs through Fiscal Year 2009. 
   "I am pleased to deliver $2 million to Upper Darby Township to assist with the construction of a parking garage that will help to improve access to the Market Street economic development corridor," said Senator Santorum. "I will continue to support funding for community and economic development projects like the Market Street Gateway project, which helps communities like Upper Darby create new jobs, attract new businesses, and expand housing developments." 
   Congressman Weldon was successful in securing $3.34 million to aid in the construction of the five-level garage of more than 300 spaces. 
   "These funds will greatly enhance the ongoing effort to revitalize and redesign Market Street as the gateway to Philadelphia and the suburbs," said Weldon. "I will continue to work with community leaders and support funding projects that will enhance community development and create new jobs in the seventh district." 
   President Bush recently signed the SAFETEA-LU bill, which also provides a federal funding formula on which states receive a return on money paid in federal gasoline taxes. Through his leadership position as Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, Senator Santorum fought to keep Pennsylvania a donee state under the bill's formula, which means the Commonwealth will receive more from the Highway Trust Fund than it contributes. The previous version of the bill, considered in the 108th Congress, made Pennsylvania a donor state with a rate of return of $.97 for every dollar it paid into the fund. The SAFETEA-LU bill Senator Santorum helped to pass ensures that Pennsylvania will never receive less than $1.13 for every dollar contributed.
   Contact: Robert Traynham, 202/224-0610.
 
 