SEN. SANTORUM PRAISES SENATE PASSAGE OF LEGISLATION TO STUDY IMPACT OF MEDIA ON CHILDREN
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today announced that the Senate has approved bipartisan legislation, the Children Media Research and Advancement (CAMRA) Act. Senator Santorum sponsored the bill, along with Sens. Joe Lieberman (D-CT), Sam Brownback (R-KS), and Hillary Clinton (D-NY).  
   The CAMRA Act authorizes new research into the effects of viewing and using electronic media including television, computers, video games and the Internet on children's cognitive, social, physical, and psychological development. 
   "As the father of six children, I am very pleased that the CAMRA Act has passed the Senate," said Senator Santorum. "This legislation will authorize new research that will provide a better understanding of the power of media - both positive and negative - on our nation's youth. Parents and policymakers will be able to use this information to make healthy and productive choices for our children." 
   The CAMRA Act establishes a research program at Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), working in coordination with the National Institutes of Health (NIH) to examine the impact of electronic media on children. Specifically, it directs CDC to contract with the National Academy of Science to review and synthesize the research of the role and the effects, both positive and negative, that electronic media have on the lives of children, and to set research priorities. The CDC will then issue grants based on these priorities to researchers to examine the impact of media on children and adolescents' ability to learn and their social, emotional, physical, and behavioral development. 
   A recent report by the Kaiser Family Foundation found that with respect to very young children, there is no reliable information or research about the impact of heavy exposure to electronic media. The report notes that "the rapid changes in our media environment have not been accompanied by a similar growth in our knowledge of how new media may impact children's cognitive, social, emotional or physical development." 
   The Senators first introduced CAMRA in May of 2004 with the endorsement of a broad array of child advocacy organizations, including the Children's Digital Media Center, the Center for Media and Child Health at Harvard University Medical School, Children Now, the American Psychological Association, Common Sense Media and the Parents Television Council.
 
 