SEN. SANTORUM APPLAUDS HOUSE PASSAGE OF RESOLUTION HONORING FLIGHT 93 PASSENGERS, CREW WHO LOST THEIR LIVES ON SEPT. 11
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, applauded the United States House of Representatives for voting to pass a bipartisan resolution honoring the passengers and crew whose lives were taken aboard United Airlines Flight 93 on September 11, 2001. The United States Senate passed the resolution earlier this year.  
   "I am very pleased that my colleagues in the House of Representatives have worked in a bipartisan way to unanimously pass this significant resolution which recognizes the immense bravery of the crew and passengers on Flight 93," said Senator Santorum. "This past Sunday marked the fourth anniversary of the events on September 11, 2001, and of the heroic efforts of the Flight 93 passengers and crew. I attended a memorial service in Shanksville, Pennsylvania to honor those aboard Flight 93 on that fateful day. It was a very moving experience, and I am honored to have cosponsored this resolution that will establish a memorial in the United States Capitol." 
   "As a result of the 9/11 Commission's findings, we conclude that America is indebted to the heroic actions of those on Flight 93, who showed great courage so that many other lives could be spared from ruin. We who work here in the Capitol are particularly indebted to those on board Flight 93. In addition to saving the lives of thousands, the passengers on this flight ensured the preservation of one of the greatest symbols of America's freedom and democracy," said Senator Santorum. 
   The resolution honors the passengers and crew of United Airlines Flight 93 who overtook the hijackers, forcing them to crash the plane in a rural area in Somerset County, Pennsylvania. Their courageous actions prevented the hijackers from carrying out what the 9/11 Commission found to be their most likely plan of harming the U.S. Capitol or White House. The resolution calls for a plaque to be displayed in a designated location within the Capitol Building to memorialize the heroic efforts of these men and women.
   Contact: Robert Traynham, 202/224-0610.
 
 