SEN. SANTORUM SECURES EXTENSION OF PRESCRIPTION DRUG BENEFITS FOR UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, announced that the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has agreed to extend the United Mine Workers Association Health and Retirement (UMWA) Funds Drug Demonstration Program through fiscal year 2007. The decision is a direct result of Sen. Santorum's advocacy on behalf of this important program. A copy of Sen. Santorum's letter to Secretary Leavitt asking HHS to extend the current program is attached.  
   "There are currently over 55,000 beneficiaries in this program including about 11,000 Pennsylvanians, and it is of vital importance that we ensure the continuation of these benefits for retired miners and their families," said Senator Santorum. "Traveling throughout Pennsylvania, I have heard firsthand from my constituents how important this program is to them, and I am pleased that I was able to play a role in extending the demonstration program." 
   "I congratulate Senator Santorum for his leadership in securing the continuation of the demonstration program," said Secretary of HHS, Michael I. Leavitt. "The continuation will ensure that innovative programs will remain available to chronically ill, frail and elderly beneficiaries." 
   The UMWA Health and Retirement Funds are in a risk-based demonstration program with the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) for Medicare Parts A and B and a Drug Demonstration Project. The UMWA Funds have administered Medicare benefits since the beginning of the Medicare program. The drug demonstration program was initiated in January 2001 to help CMS better understand the delivery of prescription drugs to beneficiaries. 
   "Senator Santorum's support for the continuation of this demonstration program shows how our elected officials - working together with a true bi-partisan spirit can help working families, including coal miners and their families," said UMWA International President Cecil E. Roberts. "On behalf of those families, I thank him for his support and his efforts to secure the continuation of these benefits for UMWA retirees and widows. I also thank Secretary Leavitt and all those at the Department of Health and Human Services who were involved with this for making the right decision to extend this demonstration."
   Contact: Robert Traynham, 202/224-0610.
 
 