SEN. SANTORUM VISITS LOCAL FIRE COMPANY IN MONTGOMERY COUNTY
  Sen. Rick Santorum, Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, was in Schwenksville today to present funding to the Schwenksville Fire Company to be used for fire prevention efforts.  
   The Senator presented $12,493 for the Schwenksville Fire Company awarded by the Department of Homeland Security's Office of Domestic Preparedness (ODP) and the United States Fire Administration's Assistance to Firefighter Grant Program. This program is designed to provide an opportunity for the U.S. Congress and ODP to enhance fire service in locations across the country by providing funding for firefighting operations, firefighter safety, EMS delivery, vehicle purchase, and prevention programs. 
   "I am pleased to present this funding to the Schwenksville Fire Company, which will allow the fire department to provide the best protection possible to our communities," said Senator Santorum. "It is important that local fire departments across the Commonwealth are outfitted with the equipment, tools, and skills they need to ensure the safety and security of our fellow Pennsylvanians." 
   "I would like to thank Senator Santorum for helping secure the Fire Prevention Grant which will allow us to distribute smoke alarms and batteries to all the residents in our Borough," said James Keyser, Fire Chief of the Schwenksville Fire Company. "We appreciate the opportunity to give something back to our community that is always there to support the fire company. We can all sleep a little better knowing that the residents will have working smoke alarms on every floor of their home." 
   Senator Santorum has been a champion for volunteer firefighters. Earlier this week, the Senator introduced the Good Samaritan Volunteer Firefighter Assistance Act of 2005, which will encourage donations of surplus firefighting equipment by reducing the threat of civil liability to heavy industry organizations and wealthier fire departments who currently destroy valuable firefighting equipment in order to avoid lawsuits. The legislation will ensure that quality equipment, otherwise wasted, will benefit volunteer firefighters.
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610. 
 
 