STRIKING A BALANCE: PRESERVING OPEN SPACE AND ENCOURAGING REDEVELOPMENT
  It is that time of year, when the flowers start blooming, when daylight savings time allows your kids an extra hour to play outside, and when you decide that you would rather walk than drive. It is also that time of year when you notice the space around you, and you realize that since the previous spring urban sprawl has taken over and is coming to a small town near you. Development has rapidly taken over our precious space and it is having an impact on the landscape of Pennsylvania. Space, or rather land, is a valuable resource that Pennsylvanians enjoy, and one that we must protect.  
   When people think about open space, they often think about it in terms of preservation - preserving open space and farmland. While I believe that those efforts are meritorious, and I have supported programs that preserve our open space, I also believe that we should consider why people are more motivated to develop in open space. There is a proper balance between protecting Pennsylvania's open space and encouraging the redevelopment of existing buildings. For instance, why would a developer rather build on open space rather than recycle existing infrastructure? 
   One approach I have supported to reduce the impact of urban sprawl on Pennsylvanians is revitalization of urban areas known as brownfields. There are estimated to be more than 10,000 brownfield sites across our state - shut down manufacturing facilities, deserted warehouses, and unused gas stations. I recently introduced legislation that encourages the cleanup of brownfield sites through a permanent fix to the U.S. Tax Code. By amending the Tax Code to allow cleanup costs to be expensed in the year they were incurred, developers will continue to be able to manage the cost of rehabilitating existing properties - which is typically more expensive than developing new sites. 
   Brownfield sites in Pennsylvania are slowly being cleaned up and redeveloped - having a positive social and economic impact on their surrounding communities. Brownfield revitalization efforts offer a creative and exciting solution toward combating the ever-increasing global trend of urban sprawl and enable communities to take back the land and make it into something useful and productive. 
   Another solution to rapid urban development is farmland preservation. Every year more than one million acres of our nation's most productive farmland is lost to urbanization. This is land that produces three-quarters of America's fruits and vegetables, and more than half of our dairy products. Preserving and protecting farmland from sprawl and development is important. Therefore, I helped to establish the Farmland Protection Program with the passage of the Federal Agriculture Improvement and Reform (FAIR) Act, also known as the 1996 Farm Bill. Since 1996, the Farmland Protection Program has been instrumental in protecting thousands of acres of farmland within Pennsylvania. 
   A voluntary program that helps farmers keep their land in agriculture, the Farmland Protection Program allows landowners to voluntarily sell their development rights in exchange for the ability to continue farming on the land. Pennsylvania is consistently ranked in the top two states in the nation for number of acres enrolled in the program, receiving more than $12 million for easement purchases through the Farmland Protection Program. 
   It is important to protect farmland from urbanization so that our farmers can provide the nation with a sufficient food supply, and I will continue to actively support legislation for this purpose. The Farmland Protection Program presents tremendous economic benefits to Pennsylvania and to the agricultural industry by ensuring that the most productive farmland in our nation will be maintained for future generations. 
   Protecting the water quality and wildlife habitats in the 3.5 million acre Highlands Region that stretches from Harrisburg through eastern Pennsylvania and up to Hartford, Connecticut is also important to ensuring the wilderness around us remains pristine. Most recently, on April 5, 2005, 7 of my colleagues joined me in authoring a letter to the Senate Appropriations Committee urging their support for fully funding the authorized amount of $11 million, for protection of the Highlands Region. This funding could not come at a more critical time because the increased population of this region has caused more than 5,000 acres of forest and farmland to be lost annually due to development. 
   As the demand for new housing and other types of development continues to alter the vast areas of forest and open space in Pennsylvania, it is important that Congress act now to not only provide funding to preserve the high priority open space that remains, but also commonsense legislation that will reduce the demand for that open space by making redevelopment more affordable.
   Contact: Elizabeth Chapman, 202/224-0610.
 
 