SENS. SANTORUM, EVAN BAYH HELP KICK OFF SEARCH FOR 'GOLDEN DADS' OVER FATHER'S DAY WEEKEND
 Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, and Indiana Sen. Evan Bayh (D-IN) joined Roland Warren, President of the National Fatherhood Initiative (NFI), to kick off a nationwide search for "Golden Dads." Both Sens. Santorum and Bayh were each presented with the first "Golden Dad" awards for this year.  
   NFI has partnered with Rendezvous Entertainment to search 10 American cities, including Philadelphia and Pittsburgh, over Father's Day weekend to find 1,000 of America's greatest dads. In Philadelphia, volunteers will be stationed near the entrance of the Franklin Institute on Saturday, June 19th from 11am to 3pm to award Golden Dads with free museum passes, and other assorted prizes. In Pittsburgh, volunteers will award fathers at the Pittsburgh Zoo on Sunday, June 20th from noon until 3pm. 
   "A Golden Dad is a dad who exemplifies the three characteristics of what a good father is - involved, responsible, and committed. This can be demonstrated by a dad comforting a crying child, changing diapers, playing with his kids, pushing a stroller, or teaching his child to ride a bike," said NFI President Roland Warren. "By spontaneously awarding fathers as they go about their business of being 'daddies,' we hope to raise awareness about how important it is for fathers to spend time with their children." 
   Senator Santorum has been supportive of the NFI in its efforts to encourage men to take responsibility for the children they father. Santorum has joined Senators Bayh and Pete Domenici (R-NM) in co-sponsoring the Responsible Fatherhood Act, which is included in the current welfare reauthorization legislation. Fatherhood Provisions in the Welfare Bill include $75 million each year for 5 years for demonstration programs, media campaigns, and a national clearinghouse for responsible fatherhood programs. 
   Santorum, who is the father of six children, says he hopes this program will help increase awareness about the impact fathers have on families. 
   "Recognizing the vital role fathers play in the home is critical," said Santorum. "This weekend's event is an effort to draw more attention to the significant contribution of positive male role models in the lives of their children."
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 