SENS. SANTORUM, FRIST JOIN DOCTORS UNITED ON PASSING MEANINGFUL MEDICAL LIABILITY REFORM
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, and Dr. Bill Frist (R-TN), Majority Leader, today held a press conference to highlight Republican commitment to pass meaningful medical liability reform during the 109th Congress. Doctors from across the country joined the Senators to address the medical liability crisis in America, including six members of the American College of Obstetricians & Gynecologists (ACOG) from Pennsylvania.  
   Over the past year Senator Santorum has met with doctors and hospital administrators regarding the impact that this crisis has on the quality of health care in Pennsylvania and the solutions that are available to improve the situation in the Commonwealth. 
   In Pennsylvania alone, nine central Philadelphia maternity wards have closed their doors over the past eight years, resulting in a loss of 44,000 bed days per year. Ob-Gyns have noted that women are routinely being diverted from one hospital to another in order to find an open bed for delivery (Fellow Communication to the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, 2005). 
   "The medical liability crisis, which stems from disproportionate jury awards in medical malpractice lawsuits and excessive medical liability insurance premiums shouldered by physicians raises the cost of providing medical care and has led many physicians to retire early or severely restrict the scope of their practices in order to reduce their premiums," said Senator Santorum. 
   A survey of Pennsylvania members of the ACOG found that 12.5 percent of them had stopped practicing obstetrics, and 57.5 percent had made changes to their practices in order to reduce their insurance costs, including dropping obstetrics, relocating, retiring, reducing their high-risk obstetrical care, and/or reducing their number of gynecological surgeries. 
   "These changes to medical practices in Pennsylvania are detrimental to the quality of health care available to Pennsylvanians, especially to women. We cannot afford to turn women away from receiving the vital and necessary prenatal medical services they need in a timely manner," said Senator Santorum. "Pennsylvania is one of the hardest hit states by this crisis and something needs to be done now to fix it. It's unfortunate that in the past my colleagues on the other side of the aisle have obstructed legislation that can truly help alleviate the burden on well-qualified physicians delivering needed medical services to Pennsylvanians and millions of other Americans. I remain hopeful that they will come to the table to discuss legislation for the 109th Congress." 
   Unless something is done at the federal level, the crisis shows no signs of slowing in Pennsylvania. According to a survey conducted by the American Association of Medical Colleges, only 28 percent of Ob-Gyn residents trained in Pennsylvania planned to stay and practice in Pennsylvania once they complete their residencies. 
   Pennsylvania members of the American College of Obstetricians & Gynecologists (ACOG) who attended the press conference included: Michael Mennuti, MD, ACOG President-Elect - Philadelphia; Terrance Babb, MD - Clearfield; Charles Castle, MD - Lancaster; Stephanie Saltz, MD - North Wales; Orion Rust, MD - Orefield; and Amanda Flicker, MD - Wayne.
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 