SEN. SANTORUM, LOCAL OFFICIALS PARTNER TO ENSURE LONG-TERM SUSTAINABILITY OF SUNBURY DAM
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference has received word from the Pennsylvania Department of Conservation and Natural Resources (DCNR) that major repairs to the Adam T. Bower Memorial Dam at Shikellamy State Park will move forward, but will not begin until late August. 
   The Adam T. Bower Dam is the longest inflatable dam in the world, spanning the Susquehanna River at Sunbury, Northumberland County, and is maintained by the Shikellamy State Park. When the dam is inflated each summer, it creates Lake Augusta, which extends 6 ? miles up the north and west branches of the Susquehanna and is a center of activity for boaters and water-skiers all summer long. When the dam is fully inflated it raises the water level 2 to 3 feet and affords 13 miles of unhindered boating. The park offers 110 marina slips that can be acquired through seasonal leases as well as a boat launch area for day and weekend visitors.
   Senator Santorum fought hard to ensure that much needed repairs to the dam were scheduled to begin, but later learned that the repairs would commence immediately following July 4, 2006, effectively cutting the summer boating season on Lake Augusta in half and depriving the residents and vacationers of the use of the lake for almost the entire month of July and all of August. Senator Santorum has heard concerns from numerous community leaders, local business owners, and recreational boaters, all of whom are very excited to see repairs made on the dam, but who are also concerned that the negative economic impact on regional businesses could be substantial due to of the timing of the repairs.
   "My office worked with State Representatives Phillips and Fairchild to see that repairs did not begin until late August or September. I am pleased to see that Governor Rendell and the DCNR recognize the importance of the repairs and the timeliness of this project; I am further encouraged to see they have allocated funding and will do all they can to hold-off on repairs until the summer boating season is nearing its end," said Senator Santorum. "A lot of folks take advantage of the fishing, boating, and camping along this area of the Susquehanna during the summer; it's a great place for families to spend a weekend together and is a treasure for North Central Pennsylvania. If you've never seen the park or this region of the Susquehanna, I invite you to visit the park this summer - you won't be disappointed."
   Small businesses, campgrounds, and communities in counties along the Susquehanna including Northumberland, Snyder, and Union all rely on the summer boating season as a source of revenue. Senator Santorum's staff met with various local and state officials, including representatives from the Susquehanna River Basin Commission; the Susquehanna River Coordinator of the Fish and Wildlife Service; Eugene Comoss, Chief Engineer, DCNR; Roger Fickes, Director of State Parks, DCNR; Victor Banks, Jr. Environmental Planner II, Grants Project Management Division, DCNR; and numerous local community and business leaders about the maintenance or the dam and the timeline of the repairs.
 
 