SEN. SANTORUM INTRODUCES 'SECURING EXCELLENCE IN EDUCATION FOR OUR KIDS' TO IMPROVE MATH, SCIENCE EDUCATION
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today introduced the Securing Excellence in Education for Our Kids (SEEK) in Math and Science Act of 2006, legislation to strengthen and improve math and science education in America's classrooms so the United States can continue to sustain a highly competitive workforce.
   "This important legislation seeks to ensure that our students are receiving a quality education in math and science-the quality education that we expect as parents and demand as a nation that must sustain our competitive edge," said Senator Santorum. 
   "I am very concerned that America's students are not keeping pace with their international peers," said Senator Santorum. "While America's fourth graders are among the top students in the world in math and science, by twelfth grade, our students are scoring near the bottom of all industrialized nations. We need to make sure that our students are aware of and prepared for a full range of rewarding opportunities in math, science, engineering, and technology. We must also ensure that our teachers have the resources and background needed to prepare our students for success in these areas."
   The National Academy of Sciences' October 2005 report, Rising Above the Gathering Storm, found that U.S. twelfth graders recently performed below the international average for twenty-one countries on a test of general knowledge in math and science. Simultaneously, America is graduating fewer engineers than our global competitors and math graduate statistics are just as troubling.
   The SEEK Math and Science Act would:
   Provide significant scholarships to motivate students to obtain four-year undergraduate degrees in math, science, technology, or engineering with concurrent certification to teach elementary and secondary school math and science.
   Provide grants to establish two-year, part-time master's degree programs for current middle and secondary math and science teachers to strengthen their own content knowledge and enhance their ability to educate America's students.
   Establish a program in which the Secretary of Education assumes the obligation to pay up to $10,000 of interest on a student loan in exchange for students working in math, science or engineering, including teaching math or science in a public elementary or secondary school.
   Award bonuses for a five-year teaching commitment in schools with the greatest need to teachers with a degree in math or science.
   Expand access to Advanced Placement (AP) coursework.
   Award grants to state and local educational agencies to offer performance incentive compensation systems to reward math and science teachers who improve student achievement.
   Provide tax incentives for companies within the science, math, and engineering sectors to allow employees to pursue post-secondary education or training and to partner with schools to teach math and science.
   Create a public awareness campaign in schools across our country to encourage students to pursue careers in science, technology, engineering, and math.
   Evaluate the effectiveness of federal programs designed to increase the number of students in education programs in science, technology, engineering, and math.
   Earlier this year, Senator Santorum visited the Penn-Trafford High School in Harrison City, Pennsylvania and spoke to students about the importance of quality education in math and sciences and how his legislation will strengthen and improve such education in America's classrooms so the United States can continue to sustain our highly competitive workforce and, ultimately our quality of life.
 
 