SEN. SANTORUM VISITS CLARION, VENANGO, ERIE COUNTIES
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA) today was in Clarion, Venango, and Erie counties. In Shippenville, Clarion County Sen. Santorum participated in the groundbreaking for the Clarion County Airport 5,000-foot runway extension project. 
   "This is a good day for Clarion County and I am pleased to be a part of it. The groundbreaking of the Clarion County runway extension project is a big deal for this area, as the runway extension will mean that more business and commerce can come into and out of the region," said Senator Santorum. "I worked closely with local officials and was able to secure $1.5 million in the Fiscal Year 2004 Transportation Appropriations bill and I am glad to see that federal funding help make this project a reality."  
   "Clarion County is very thankful for Senator Santorum's interest in the runway expansion project. This project would not have happened without his assistance and we greatly appreciate him looking out for Clarion County," said Dave Cyphert, Clarion County Commissioner Chairman. 
   Later in Oil City, Venango County the Northwest Pennsylvania Regional Planning and Development Commission presented Senator Santorum with the 2006 National Association of Development Organizations Congressional Partnership Award. The Senator is being recognized for his outstanding leadership on the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, and Efficient Transportation Equity Act - A legacy for Users (SAFETEA-LU), the Broadband Internet Access Act, the Appalachian Regional Commission, and the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) Program. 
   "The Northwest Commission is very appreciative of Senator Santorum's support of our agency, as well as his efforts in moving our region forward. He has been very supportive of the key issues that are critical to the region's competitiveness such as transportation and broadband deployment," said Denise McCloskey, Executive Director of the Northwest Pennsylvania Regional Planning and Development Commission. 
   "Thank you to the Northwest Pennsylvania Regional Planning and Development Commission for recognizing my work on issues like the Appalachian Regional Commission, Community Development Block Grant Program, and Broadband Internet Access for rural areas," said Senator Santorum. "It is an honor for me to represent our state in the United States Senate. I enjoy having the opportunity to work with outstanding community and regional leaders like those of you here today." 
   Senator Santorum ended his day in Erie at Industrial Sales and Manufacturing, Inc. to meet with company officials and John Kanzius, inventor of the experimental non-invasive radio frequency cancer ablation therapy. In August of last year Senator Santorum met with Mr. Kanzius at the UPMC Cancer Treatment Research Lab in Pittsburgh. 
   "I helped to secure $200,000 in the Fiscal Year 2005 Health and Human Services Appropriations bill for research and funding of the Non-Invasive Radio Wave Cancer Ablation device," said Senator Santorum. "I am pleased to see that a local Erie manufacturer, Industrial Sales and Manufacturing, has been designated to be the company to produce the equipment prototype for this cutting edge technology." 
   "Senator Santorum's visit to Erie is very significant. It is reflective of the personal commitment that this Senator has shown over many years in establishing himself as a leader and being a health advocate by his direct involvement and personal interest in studying new health technology, which might prove to provide better healthcare for all of Pennsylvanians and the nation," said Mr. Kanzius. "Last August the Senator visited UPMC and spent considerable time to observe and ask numerous questions about a new cancer procedure being tested by Dr. Dave Geller in Pittsburgh. The Senator's trip to Erie will allow for him to receive a far more extensive update on this procedure."
 
 