SEN. SANTORUM CONTINUES EFFORTS TO GUARANTEE SOCIAL SECURITY BENEFITS FOR SENIORS
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today called upon his colleagues in the United States Senate to support his efforts to guarantee Social Security benefits for seniors. Sen. Santorum called for the Senate to bring his legislation, S. 1750, the Social Security Guarantee Act of 2005, before the full Senate for debate. Unfortunately, the Democratic Leadership in the Senate blocked this effort to allow debate on this measure to move forward.  
   "I am disappointed that some of my colleagues did not recognize the importance of providing our nation's seniors with the peace of mind they deserve by giving them a written guarantee for their Social Security benefits," said Senator Santorum. "This legislation is far too important to our nation's seniors to be derailed by partisan politics." 
   Senator Santorum's legislation would require the Secretary of the Treasury to issue a written guarantee of a monthly benefit, along with a guaranteed annual cost-of-living increase, to each Social Security recipient born before 1950. There is a common misconception that seniors currently have a legal right to their social security benefit; however in 1960, the Supreme Court ruled otherwise. Enacting the Social Security Guarantee Act is the only way to guarantee that America's seniors can count on their hard-earned benefits. 
   On March 15th of this year, all 100 senators voted for the Graham-Santorum amendment to the budget resolution, expressing the sense of the Senate regarding the urgent need for legislation to ensure the long-term viability of the Social Security program. This amendment, which every Democrat and Republican voted for, also stated that Social Security reform "must protect current and near retirees from any changes to Social Security benefits." The Social Security Guarantee Act simply codifies what all 100 senators voted for in the Graham-Santorum amendment. 
   Senator Jim DeMint (R-SC) joined Senator Santorum on the Senate floor to discuss his own legislation calling for saving and strengthening Social Security. 
   "I held dozens of town hall meetings throughout Pennsylvania, and I overwhelmingly heard that seniors were concerned that efforts to save and strengthen Social Security for younger workers may jeopardize their benefits. I introduced this legislation because it is important to let our seniors know that the benefits that they worked so hard for, and are counting on to sustain them during their retirement years, will not change. By guaranteeing benefits to seniors and eliminating these fears, the Social Security debate can focus on real solutions," said Senator Santorum. 
   Senator Santorum is Chairman of the U.S. Senate Finance Committee's Subcommittee on Social Security and Family Policy and a member of the Senate Select Committee on Aging. 
   "I remain committed to passing bipartisan, comprehensive Social Security reform to save and strengthen the system. This legislation would have been an important first step to broader reform, reassuring seniors that their benefits will be there for them. The Democrat obstruction and lack of proposals for a solution have been a huge obstacle in moving forward in a bipartisan way," said Senator Santorum.
   Contact: Robert Traynham, 202/224-0610.
 
 