SEN. SANTORUM CONTINUES HIS COMMITMENT TO PENNSYLVANIA AGRICULTURE AT 2006 AG PROGRESS DAYS
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), a member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry, today spoke at the 2006 Ag Progress Days at the Russell E. Larson Agriculture Research Center in Rock Springs, Centre County. Ag Progress Days is an annual event that draws as many as 50,000 Pennsylvanians to learn more about the latest research, technology, and policies affecting the agriculture community, for more information go to http://apd.cas.psu.edu/Default.html. 
   "As the first senator from Pennsylvania in more than a century to serve on the Senate Agriculture Committee, I am committed to ensuring that our state's agriculture interests are represented and I look forward to every opportunity to hear from Pennsylvania's agriculture community in anticipation of the upcoming Senate Farm Bill," said Senator Santorum. "Last year USDA Secretary Johanns held a listening session at Ag Progress Days at my request, and most recently I hosted a Senate Agriculture Committee hearing in Harrisburg to listen to the concerns of regional farmers and agribusiness about the upcoming farm bill."  
   Senator Santorum, who is also Chairman of the Senate Agriculture Subcommittee on Research, Nutrition, and General Legislation, believes that the 2007 Farm Bill must contain measures that allow producers to grow their agricultural business in Pennsylvania while continuing to be good stewards of our natural resources. In working to establish the framework of the 2007 Farm Bill, the Senator's goal is to foster and develop an agricultural policy for Pennsylvania. Pennsylvania's agricultural economy is based on a different crop/product mix than the majority of states that traditionally have influenced and written previous farm bills. The Senator is working to ensure that states of the mid-Atlantic and northeast are well represented in the farm bill process this time. Most programs governing farm policy in the existing law, the "Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002", will expire in September of 2007. The Senate committee and its counterpart in the U.S. House of Representatives have begun the process to have the new legislation in place by October 2007 as the current Farm Bill expires. 
   "Throughout my tenure in the U.S. Senate, I have worked hard on various issues of significant concern to the farmers and agribusiness in our state; this includes the Milk Income Loss Contract program (MILC), which has paid more than $180 million to Pennsylvania dairy farmers to help them withstand the volatile nature of commodity markets. I am also proud of my work on crop insurance; efforts to repeal the Death Tax; and sponsorship of the Federal Farmland Protection program, through which our state has received $22 million to protect 36,000 acres of farmland," said Senator Santorum. 
   Senator Santorum is also working to increase our domestic energy supply and research the pursuit of alternative sources of energy including clean coal, ethanol, soy-based bio diesel, and biogas. Senator Santorum has been a tireless advocate for lowering gas prices for all Americans and reducing our nation's reliance on foreign sources of oil; he championed the nation's first coal-to-liquid fuel plant, which will be located in Pennsylvania. This proven technology has the potential to significantly reduce our nation's dangerous and costly dependence on foreign oil. Senator Santorum also supported the Energy Policy Act (P.L. 109-58), which included numerous provisions to utilize biofuels and ethanol, as well as provide additional incentives for the utilization of hybrid automobiles.
 
 