SEN. SANTORUM DENOUNCES PRESIDENT OF IRAN'S COMMENTS CALLING HOLOCAUST A 'MYTH'
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, introduced a bipartisan resolution, Senate Resolution 337, which unanimously passed the Senate today, condemning the harmful, destructive, and anti-Semitic statements of Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, the President of Iran, and to demand an apology for those statements of hate and animosity towards all Jewish people. 
   "President Ahmadinejad recently made extremely offensive comments claiming that the Holocaust was a 'myth' and noted that Israel should be wiped off the map. These ridiculous statements are just another piece of evidence that the Government of Iran harbors deep hatred for the United States, Israel and all Jewish people," said Senator Santorum. 
   Senators Sam Brownback (R-KS), Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), Frank Lautenberg (D-NJ), Kit Bond (R-MO), David Vitter (R-LA), Norm Coleman (R-MN), and Johnny Isakson (R-GA) are among the cosponsors of the resolution. 
   The resolution also calls attention to Iran's support for terrorist organizations and Iran's nuclear ambitions stating, "Whereas the leaders of Iran...have similarly called for the destruction of the United States, and have funded, armed, trained, assisted and sheltered leading terrorists, including terrorists in Iraq who use Iranian support to kill military personnel of the United States." 
   "The current Government of Iran is among the most dangerous government in the world," said Senator Santorum. "We must continue to call attention to Iran's reckless and provocative behavior so that the international community can succeed in halting Iran's nuclear ambitions." 
   Earlier this year, Senator Santorum introduced S. 333, the Iran Freedom and Support Act of 2005, a bill designed to make it more difficult for the Government of Iran to have access to revenue and foreign investment - revenue that could be used to support terrorism and the development of weapons of mass destruction, and declares that it should be U.S. policy to support efforts by the Iranian people to exercise self-determination over the form of government of their country.
 
 