SEN. SANTORUM REINTRODUCES LEGISLATION TO REVITALIZE BROWNFIELD SITES; CREATE JOBS
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today announced the re-introduction of legislation that will encourage the clean up of brownfield sites.  
   Brownfields are once-functional industrial commercial sites that are now abandoned, inactive or under-used, and have been affected by environmental contamination. The process of cleaning up these sites to make them viable again is costly and time consuming. While the price tag varies with each site, it is not unreasonable for the clean up of a major site to cost between $500,000 and $1 million because of environmental pollutants. 
   Senator Santorum and Senator Evan Bayh (D-IN) introduced legislation today that would allow expensing of brownfields clean up costs to be a permanent fixture in the Tax Code. 
   "Brownfield sites are a long-term problem and this legislation will allow us to continue to address this important task," said Senator Santorum. "In the past, clean up costs associated with brownfields had to be capitalized to the land, postponing any recovery of these costs for tax purposes until the property was sold." 
   As part of the Community Renewal and Revitalization Act of 2000, Congress enacted tax incentives, which allowed clean up costs to be expensed in the year they were incurred - these provisions expired after 2003. The Senate's fiscal year 2004 international tax bill renewed the expired incentives until December 31, 2005. This extension was included in the Working Families Tax Relief Act, which was passed during the 108th Congress. 
   The Santorum-Bayh legislation would extend the same tax provisions to offset the costs of rehabilitating these sites, and would make the incentives permanent. Since a large percentage of brownfields across the country are contaminated with petroleum, the bill would also broaden the qualifying definition of "hazardous substances," which would enable petroleum-contaminated sites to be eligible for the tax incentives as well. The bill also repeals the provision in the law that requires a taxpayer who uses the clean up deduction to pay income tax on that amount when he or she sells the property.
   "Keeping Pennsylvania communities attractive and clean is essential to future economic development and attracting new residents to the Keystone State. I expect the redevelopment of existing brownfield sites to generate about $2 billion in annual tax revenues, as well as create good-paying jobs and affordable housing," said Senator Santorum.
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 