SEN. SANTORUM ANNOUNCES STAFF CHANGES IN WASHINGTON OFFICE
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today announced staff changes in his Washington, DC office.  
   Senator Santorum announces that after 14 years of service, Mike Hershey will step down as the Senator's Chief of Staff. A native of Columbia, Pennsylvania, and graduate of Franklin and Marshall College, Hershey has accepted the position of Senior Vice President of Government Affairs for the National Association of Broadcasters (NAB), a trade association that represents the interests of free, over-the-air radio and television broadcasters. 
   "Mike has been a member of my staff since 1991, when I was first elected to the House of Representatives," said Senator Santorum. "His years of service in my office have been outstanding, and I appreciate his commitment and loyalty to my staff and to the people of Pennsylvania. I wish him the best in his new endeavor." 
   Legislative Director Wayne Palmer will take over the role as Senator Santorum's Chief of Staff. 
   Palmer, a native of Easton, Pennsylvania, is a graduate of Easton High School. He received a B.A. in Political Science from Penn State University and an M.G.A. from the University of Pennsylvania. Palmer came to Washington in 1992 to serve as a Presidential Management Intern. He worked as Senior Legislative Assistant for Santorum from 1995-1999, and then as Legislative Director for U.S. Senator George Voinovich (R-OH) from 1999-2001. In January 2001, Palmer rejoined Santorum's Washington staff to serve as Legislative Director. 
   "Wayne's leadership and counsel as my Legislative Director have played an integral part in tracking and building support for Senate policy and legislation on my behalf," said Senator Santorum. "I look forward to working closely with him in his new role of overseeing all operations in my Washington office and eight state offices." Santorum also announced today that Zack Moore, a native of Highspire, Pennsylvania, will rejoin the Senator's staff as Legislative Director. 
   Moore graduated from Steelton-Highspire High School, and went on to earn a B.A. in International Politics from Penn State University. He began his tenure on Capitol Hill working for members of the U.S. House of Representatives. He served as Staff Assistant for then-Rep. George Gekas (R-PA) from 1995 to 1996, and then as the Legislative Director to Rep. Charles Canady (R-FL). Moore joined the Washington staff of Senator Santorum in 1999 as Director of Special Projects. In 2001, Zack founded Moore Federal Solutions, a government affairs firm that represents Pennsylvania institutions seeking federal funding. 
   "I am pleased that Zack Moore will be rejoining my staff as Legislative Director," said Senator Santorum. "He brings with him several years of experience that offer a critical understanding of important policy issues facing Pennsylvania and our nation."
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 