SENS. SANTORUM, SPECTER ANNOUNCE THIRD ROUND FUNDING FOR PENNSYLVANIA FIRE COMPANIES
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, and Sen.  
 Arlen Specter (R-PA), a member of the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, announced today that the Department of Homeland Security has approved funding for several fire companies in Pennsylvania. These grants are part of the third round of funding from the Office of Domestic Preparedness (ODP) and the United States Fire Administration's Assistance to Firefighter Grant Program. Congress approved $750 million in direct assistance for the 2004 program to support firefighters throughout the country. 
   This program is designed to provide an opportunity for the U.S. Congress and ODP to enhance fire service in locations across the country by providing funding for firefighting operations, firefighter safety, EMS delivery, vehicle purchase, and prevention programs. 
   "It is important that our first responders are equipped with the tools and skills they need to provide the communities of western Pennsylvania with the best protection possible," said Senator Santorum. "This funding provides local fire departments and emergency personnel with the training they need to provide adequate service and support necessary in times of need." 
   "Our Pennsylvania firefighters risk their lives every day to ensure the safety of millions of people," Senator Specter said. "This grant will help ensure that they can continue to protect our communities. I commend the Office of Domestic Preparedness for recognizing this priority and for its continued support of the nation's fire services." 
   Grants have been approved for the following companies in Pennsylvania: 
   * $92,218 for Lower Yoder Township Volunteer Fire Company in Cambria County. 
   * $74,813 for Parks Township Volunteer Fire Department in Westmoreland County. 
   * $47,402 for Canton Township V.F.C. and Rescue Squad in Washington County.
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 