SEN. SANTORUM COSPONSORS KIDNEY CARE QUALITY ACT OF 2005
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today joined Sen. Kent Conrad (D-ND) and members of the Washington Redskins professional football team to raise awareness for the bipartisan Kidney Care Quality and Improvement Act of 2005. Sen. Santorum, the bill's sponsor and Sen. Conrad, an original cosponsor of the legislation, introduced this legislation today, which seeks to improve the quality of care for End Stage Renal Disease (ESRD) patients as well as the financial stability of Medicare's ESRD program.  
   ESRD is a disease that causes irreversible kidney failure for which the only cure is a kidney transplant. More than 300,000 Americans have ESRD, and in a majority of the cases a transplant is not an option. Instead, a patient must receive dialysis treatments up to three times a week, with each treatment lasting for three to four hours. 
   "This life threatening disease requires patients to undergo the strenuous and costly treatment of kidney dialysis several times a week," said Senator Santorum. "This bill aims to fix the dialysis payment system to remedy the current inequity in reimbursement by taking into account real changes in prices and inflation, and providing for an annual update to the payment mechanism." 
   Congress first established the Medicare ESRD program to provide Medicare coverage to individuals with kidney failure; however, it has not been updated significantly for the past twenty years. 
   Currently, Medicare reimburses dialysis facilities through a prospective payment system (PPS) known as the "composite rate," which pays these providers each time they administer dialysis to a patient. However, unlike every other Medicare PPS, the composite rate has no automatic annual payment update mechanism to keep dialysis reimbursement in line with the rising costs of providing care. The lack of a payment update mechanism for dialysis providers poses unique issues in terms of patient access to this vital healthcare service. 
   Senator Santorum cosponsored similar modifications during consideration of the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act that would improve the quality of care for many Americans suffering from ESRD. He proposed an amendment that would have established an annual update framework for dialysis providers starting in 2006. Though the Finance Committee did not adopt this amendment, Senator Santorum and Senator Conrad were later successful in passing an amendment that would secure a 1.6 percent increase in the composite rate for each of fiscal years 2005 and 2006. 
   "As a member of the Senate Finance Committee, which has jurisdiction over Medicare legislation, I am committed to working with my colleagues to ensure passage of this important bill that will help hundreds of thousands of Americans living with kidney disease get the proper treatment they need," said Senator Santorum.
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610. 
 
 