PITTSBURGHER TESTIFIES BEFORE SENATE FINANCE COMMITTEE
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, welcomed Dale Giovengo, Director of Human Resources for Giant Eagle Markets of Pittsburgh, to testify at a hearing on tax provisions before the Senate Finance Committee.  
   Mr. Giovengo discussed the importance of the Work Opportunity Tax Credit (WOTC) and Welfare-to-Work (W-t-W) Tax Credit to Giant Eagle Markets and to the Pittsburgh community. Giant Eagle has participated in the WOTC/W-t-W initiatives since they were first enacted by Congress in 1996 to provide incentives to employers to hire individuals who have a difficult time finding work during good and bad economic times. The WOTC and W-t-W tax credits are both a hiring incentive and a retention incentive--offsetting some of the higher costs of recruiting and providing a higher reward for those who stay longer on the job. He highlighted Giant Eagle's effort to reach out to the local community to recruit new employees who are eligible for the credit. WOTC/W-t-W hires made up almost 14% of Giant Eagle's work force in 2003. 
   "We have found that many of our WOTC/W-t-W hires become loyal, well-trained employees. We are very pleased that by providing employment opportunities to these individuals we are helping families to move away from welfare dependence and become part of the productive, tax-paying workforce," Giovengo stated. 
   Mr. Giovengo expressed Giant Eagle's strong support for S. 595, the Encouraging Work Act of 2005, which was introduced by Senator Santorum. S. 595 would permanently extend and improve WOTC and W-t-W and combine them into one tax credit. 
   "I appreciate Mr. Giovengo's willingness to come to Washington and bear witness to the positive impact these tax incentives are having on Giant Eagle and in the Pittsburgh community," Santorum said. "I deeply believe in these incentives and am pleased to see Pennsylvanians gain the ability to shift from public assistance programs to lives of self sufficiency."
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610. 
 
 