SEN. SANTORUM PRESENTS FUNDING FOR CONSTRUCTION OF SOUTH SHORE RIVERFRONT PARK AT SOUTHSIDE WORKS IN PITTSBURGH
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, presented funding to the Urban Redevelopment Authority (URA) of Pittsburgh to begin construction of the South Shore Riverfront Park located at SouthSide Works. Sen. Santorum presented $300,000 from the Economic Development Initiative portion of the FY 2005 Consolidated Appropriations Act to the URA.  
   "SouthSide Works is a shining example of a region utilizing its opportunities to redevelop abandoned industrial sites," said Senator Santorum. "The Riverfront Park will be a great addition to the already impressive neighborhood. Pittsburghers are enjoying the clean, safe environment and attractive urban neighborhood of SouthSide Works; the Riverfront Park will create opportunities for outdoor recreation, entertainment and abundant open space. I am pleased to have been able to work with the Soffer Organization and the URA to help secure this funding." 
   "The reclamation of industrial riverfronts is extremely costly; we are grateful to Senator Santorum for securing federal funds to defray the public costs while providing a benefit to the entire region. Opening up this part of the City to the river is invaluable," said Jerome Dettore, URA's Executive Director. 
   The South Shore Riverfront Park will become part of Three Rivers Park, a grand urban-scale riverfront park that extends nearly 10 miles around the central business district of Pittsburgh on the Monongahela, Allegheny and Ohio rivers. Plans for South Shore Riverfront Park include bike trails, a landing for recreational vessels and water taxis, a performance venue, and river overlooks. 
   SouthSide Works is a 123-acre brownfield redevelopment site that includes commercial, retail, office, hotel and housing developments. Once a symbol of Pittsburgh's industrial heritage and prosperity, the former mill site sat abandoned for years, but is now a growing new neighborhood. The SouthSide Works development plan was advanced by the URA and has been recognized by the EPA and the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania for brownfield redevelopment and an open space strategy that will enhance economic growth and the quality of life for everyone in the community.
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 