SEN. SANTORUM ANNOUNCES FEDERAL FUNDING FOR DELAWARE RIVER MAIN CHANNEL DEEPENING PROJECT
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, announced that Congress has approved federal funding for Army Corps of Engineers projects in Pennsylvania. The funding is part of the Fiscal Year 2006 Energy and Water Appropriations bill. One of the projects to receive funding is the Delaware River Main Channel Deepening Project. The project is awaiting final approval of the Project Cooperative Agreement (PCA) to commence.  
   "I am pleased to announce that the Delaware River Main Channel Deepening Project will receive $2.25 million. Currently the existing channel restricts the efficient movement of tankers, dry bulk carriers and container vessels," said Senator Santorum. "The 45-foot deepening project will create jobs and increase transportation to commodities consisting of crude oil imports, iron ore imports, and scrap exports." 
   "The Energy and Water Appropriations bill provides funding for flood protection projects and maintenance of the waterway infrastructure; the failure of which would be devastating to flood prone communities and the industries that depend on Pennsylvania's rivers," said Senator Santorum. 
   The Fiscal Year 2006 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill passed the Senate on November 14, 2005 with a vote of 84-4. The House of Representatives passed the bill on November 9, 2005. The bill will now be sent to the President for his signature. 
   "With the money that Senator Santorum was able to secure for the Delaware deepening project we will be able to make the Port of Philadelphia a prominent port among the ports of the United State and the world. While others bemoan the loss of industrial jobs, Senator Santorum has worked tirelessly to create jobs and maintain the hard working nature of the commercial port of Philadelphia," Brian Preski, Chairman of the Philadelphia Regional Port Authority.
   Contact: Robert Traynham, 202/224-0610.
 
 