SEN. SANTORUM RECEIVES INTERNATIONAL HUMANITARIAN AWARD
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today received the International Humanitarian Award from MAPAVI, Inc. (Marcelino Pan y Vino) for his efforts within the Hispanic community. MAPAVI is a non-profit organization that devotes its resources to the community by providing medical treatment for victims of terminal diseases and by helping legal immigrants assimilate more easily into America's mainstream society through a variety of educational programs.  
   "I would like to thank the members of Marcelino Pan y Vino for presenting me with this year's International Humanitarian Award," said Senator Santorum. "It is truly an honor, and one for which I am extremely grateful. I appreciate the great work of Father Hoyos and this organization. MAPAVI is a credit to the Hispanic community and to America." 
   At the award ceremony, Senator Santorum was pleased to announce the launch of the Spanish version of his Senate website. 
   "As a United States Senator, one of my highest priorities is to remain accessible and responsive to the people of Pennsylvania. During my travels across the Commonwealth and meetings with constituents, I have met many members of the Spanish speaking community and I realized that I need to be more accessible to this community by making my website available in Spanish," Senator Santorum said. 
   "The new Spanish version of the website enables my Spanish speaking constituents to access an array of information ranging from my views on important issues to tourism and regional information from the Keystone State. Additionally, the Spanish website offers various services for Pennsylvanians including information regarding federal, state, local and private funding for grants and information on how to navigate the grant process," Senator Santorum continued. 
   The Spanish version of the Senator's website can be accessed at http://santorum.senate.gov/spanish or http://santorum.senate.gov/enespanol.
   Contact: Robert Traynham, 202/224-0610.
 
 