SEN. SANTORUM APPLAUDS SENATE PASSAGE OF RESOLUTION URGING U.N. ACTION AGAINST ANTI-SEMITISM
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, applauded his Senate colleagues for the unanimous approval of his bipartisan Senate resolution (S. Res. 240) urging action against anti-Semitic language and actions by United Nations officials and member states.  
   "I am pleased that my colleagues supported this resolution and joined me in sending a strong message to the United Nations that member states must put an end to anti-Semitic language and political attacks against Israel," said Senator Santorum. "It is time for the Senate to speak once more against the scourge of anti-Israel and anti-Semitic language and activity." 
   The resolution sponsored by Senator Santorum cites specific examples of anti-Semitism within the United Nations. It also notes that Israel continues to be the only U.N. member denied eligibility to hold a rotating seat on the Security Council, despite the fact that it has been a member of the organization for 56 years. 
   The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, approved by the U.N. General Assembly in 1948, recognizes that "the inherent dignity and equal and inalienable rights of all members of the human family is the foundation of freedom, justice and peace in the world." Unfortunately, there are numerous examples of anti-Semitism and anti-Israel actions at the U.N. and by member states. 
   The resolution makes it clear that the United States Senate is committed to opposing anti-Semitism at the U.N. and calls on the U.N. to officially and publicly condemn anti-Semitic statements made at its meetings and to hold accountable member states that make such statements. In addition, it urges the implementation of educational awareness programs about the Holocaust to be implemented around the world to combat anti-Semitism, racism, and religious and ethnic intolerance. The U.S. Ambassador to the U.N. should also continue working to reduce anti-Semitic and anti-Israel language and resolutions. Likewise, the resolution asks that information on anti-Semitic activities at the U.N. be reported by the State Department. 
   Senators Russ Feingold (D-WI), Joe Biden (D-DE), Norm Coleman (R-MN), Gordon Smith (R-OR), Susan Collins (R-ME), and George Voinovich (R-OH) are among cosponsors of the resolution. A similar resolution sponsored by Representatives Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-18-FL) and Tom Lantos (D-12-CA), passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 409 to 2.
   Contact: Robert Traynham, 202/224-0610.
 
 