SEN. SANTORUM DELIVERS FUNDING FOR ROAD IMPROVEMENTS IN DAUPHIN COUNTY, ANNOUNCES AFFORDABLE HOUSING GRANTS IN LANCASTER COUNTY
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today joined Rep. Joe Pitts (R-PA-16) and Bill Batz, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLBank) of Pittsburgh to announce $1.08 million in Affordable Housing Program grants for three south-central Pennsylvania projects.  
   Projects receiving grant money include the Water Street Rescue Mission in Lancaster, a new retirement community in Hanover sponsored by the Lutheran Social Services of South Central Pennsylvania, and a new apartment complex in Mechanicsburg sponsored by the Cumberland County Housing and Redevelopment Authority. 
   "As a member of the Senate Committee that has jurisdiction over affordable housing, and as a member of Senate Leadership, I am pleased to join the FHLBank of Pittsburgh and Congressman Pitts to announce more than $1 million in grants for affordable housing projects in central Pennsylvania," said Senator Santorum. "The Water Street Rescue Mission is an excellent investment and the FHLBank has once again been a reliable partner for providing financial help and services to communities throughout Pennsylvania. This news is a welcomed gift to those who are in need of safe and affordable housing." 
   Before traveling to Lancaster, Senator Santorum was in Harrisburg to deliver federal funding to West Hanover Township. The Senator successfully secured the funding in the Safe, Accountable, Flexible and Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (SAFETEA-LU), a transportation funding bill which reauthorizes federal funding for surface transportation programs through fiscal year 2009. 
   "I am pleased to deliver $500,000 today to West Hanover Township for much needed improvements to the roads and ramps leading to and from Interstate 81 near Exit 77," said Senator Santorum. 
   The SAFETEA-LU bill, which was recently signed by President Bush, also provides a federal funding formula on which states receive a return on money paid in federal gasoline taxes. 
   "Through my leadership position as Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, I fought to keep Pennsylvania a donee state under the bill's formula, which means the Commonwealth will receive more from the Highway Trust Fund than it contributes," said Senator Santorum. "The previous version of the bill, considered in the 108th Congress, made Pennsylvania a donor state with a rate of return of $.97 for every dollar it paid into the fund. The SAFETEA-LU bill I helped to pass ensures our state will never receive less than $1.13 for every dollar contributed."
   Contact: Robert Trayham, 202/224-0610.
 
 