SEN. SANTORUM REINTRODUCES LEGISLATION TO CLARIFY TAX TREATMENT OF MOTORSPORTS FACILITIES
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today announced the reintroduction of the Motorsports Fairness and Permanency Act, legislation that would permanently extend the current treatment of investments made to motorsports entertainment complexes. If passed, the Motorsports Fairness and Permanency Act will clarify tax treatment by the Internal Revenue Service of the growing motorsports industry. 
   For decades, motorsports facilities were classified as "theme and amusement facilities" for depreciation. Over the years, relying on this understanding of the tax law, facility owners and operators around the nation invested hundred of millions of dollars in building and upgrading these properties. Recently, the Internal Revenue Service has raised questions regarding the depreciation treatment used by motorsports facility owners. 
   "The Motorsports Fairness and Permanency Act provides certainty to track and speedway operators regarding the depreciation of their properties. This legislation clarifies that a "motorsports entertainment complex" is depreciated over a seven-year period, eliminating this uncertainty in their operations," said Senator Santorum. "Without a permanent provision that provides clarity and certainty, significant capital investments in motorsports facilities could be hurt." 
   Motorsports is the fastest growing sporting attraction in the United States, drawing fans to tracks and speedways around the country. There are over 900 motorsports facilities throughout the United States. Pennsylvania is home to sixty racing facilities, which ties with California for the second most motorsports facilities in the country. Various Pennsylvania facilities and tracks including Pocono Raceway, Lake Erie Speedway and Maple Grove Raceway host NASCAR, National Hot Rod Association, Import Drag Racing Circuit, and other racing events. 
   "This week alone hundreds of thousands of stock car racing fans will travel to Florida for Speedweek and the Daytona 500. This summer the Pocono Raceway in Long Pond, Pennsylvania will bring over 120,000 people to each NASCAR race which will generate hundreds of thousands of dollars in local revenue, as well as create employment opportunities," said Senator Santorum. 
   Last year, in H.R. 4520, the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, Senator Santorum worked to ensure that the appropriate depreciation period for motorsports assets was indeed seven years. Due to revenue constraints in that particular bill, the provision on motorsports asset classification will lapse in 2008, meaning that Congress needs to act to permanently extend the provision. Senators Bill Nelson (D-FL), Jon Kyl (R-AZ), George Allen (R-VA), Jim Bunning (R-KY), Saxby Chambliss (R-GA), and Elizabeth Dole (R-NC) join Senator Santorum as cosponsors of The Motorsports Fairness and Permanency Act.
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 