MEDICARE HOME HEALTH TELEHEALTH ACT OF 2006
  Medicare Home Health Telehealth Act of 2006 is legislation that would enable Medicare home health beneficiaries in rural and non-rural areas to leverage current and future technology. With the use of technology, Medicare can achieve economic efficiencies and improved patient care. 
   Medicare Home Health Telehealth Act of 2006:
   Directs the Secretary of HHS to determine criteria to determine under which technological interfaces between home health practitioners and patients could be counted as a visit for Medicare purposes.
   As under current Medicare conditions of participation, in order to meet the eligibility and payment standard, the telehome care services must be specifically ordered as part of the plan of care by the patient's physician.
   Would prohibit substituting any telehealth services for physician ordered in-person home health services, and maintains the requirement that the treating physician must certify that a patient is confined to the home and the need of skilled nursing care on an intermittent basis.
   Establishes a pay for performance pilot program under which home health agencies would receive bonus payments if savings were demonstrated.
   Telehealth services would be required to be properly reported on the annual Medicare cost report filed by home health agencies.
   About Telehealth
   Telehealth technology provides an interactive audio-video connection over telephone lines. During an on-line visit, the provider and patient see and talk with each other, carrying out health status assessments, monitoring vital signs, medication supervision, monitoring heart and lung sounds, and patient education. Additional devices can be used to perform more in-depth patient tests, such as blood coagulation checks, electrocardiograms, and pulse oximetry.
   Unfortunately, Medicare does not cover telehome care technology visits. CMS maintains that telehealth visits do not meet the Social Security Act definition of home health services "provided on a visiting basis in a place of residence." CMS regulations at 42 CFR 484.48(c) define a home health "visit" as "an episode of personal contact with the beneficiary by staff of the HHA [home health agency]."
   In 1999 Congress directed the Secretary of HHS to consider new technologies within home health services to improve health outcomes (House Report 106-479) "consider what changes would be necessary to provide home health care agencies with the flexibility to adopt new market innovations and new technologies that can improve health outcomes while maintaining the goals of quality of care and cost containment."
   1. National standards have been established by the American Telemedicine Association for the delivery of telehomecare services.
   2. Definition from the National Association of Home Care and Hospice.
 
 