SEN. SANTORUM HONORS POW, HOSPITALIZED VETS
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today attended the groundbreaking for the VA Pittsburgh Healthcare System's 1,500-space parking garage at the University Drive Division of the VA's Pittsburgh Healthcare System. 
   "The VA Hospital on University Drive faced a very common challenge that many hospitals in urban areas face - accessible parking for patients. The last three budgets Congress passed and for which I voted, included a total of $2.2 billion to the VA CARES federal process which is designed to make health care more accessible and closer to where most veterans live," said Senator Santorum.
   The President's 2007 Budget Request includes $457 million in fiscal year 2007 for medical care construction for the VA. As part of VA CARES, $37 million was previously awarded to the construction of the University Drive Division of the VA's Pittsburgh Healthcare System. At the groundbreaking, Senator Santorum unveiled design images for other phases of the VA Pittsburgh Healthcare System's major construction project.
   Following the groundbreaking ceremony Senator Santorum met with hospitalized veterans as part of the National Salute to Hospitalized Veterans week. He also presented a Prisoner of War (POW) Medal to World War II veteran Patrick Saussol.
   "This award and the correction of Mr. Saussol's military papers are long overdue, but I am honored to have this opportunity today to personally thank him for his service and publicly recognize his enormous sacrifice for our country. We must never forget what he and so many others did to stop the spread of tyranny, liberate millions in Europe, and secure our freedom," said Senator Santorum.
   Mr. Saussol served in the Army during World War II and was involved in the Task Force Baum raid ordered by General George Patton to liberate an American POW prison camp near Hammelburg, Germany.
   During the raid Mr. Saussol himself was taken as a POW. However, until now Mr. Saussol's military records did not accurately reflect he was a POW. On December 5, 2005, this issue was brought to the attention of Senator Santorum. Today, the Senator was able to present Mr. Saussol with corrected military records that accurately depict his status as a POW and fully recognize his extensive contributions to the Allied effort in World War II, as well as a Prisoner of War Medal.
   "For a long time no one believed me that I was a POW and I never got a thank you from anyone. I want to thank the Senator for getting my records fixed and presenting me with this medal. Senator Santorum helped me and I am one hundred percent grateful; I have been waiting a long time for this," said Mr. Saussol.
   For more information about Senator Santorum and veterans go to http://santorum.senate.gov and enter the keyword VETERANS.
 
 