SEN. SANTORUM JOINS SEN. MCCAIN TO DISCUSS LOBBYING REFORM
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, and Sen. John McCain (R-AZ), held a press conference today to discuss their efforts to clean up Congress through lobbying reform.  
   "It is a pleasure to be here with my colleague from Arizona, Senator McCain, to give an outline of some of the work we've been doing with respect to lobbying reform - the charge that Senator Frist handed over to me as a member of leadership and based on my record over the past 15 years to add more transparency to our political process," said Senator Santorum. 
   Senators Santorum and McCain outlined the process by which they will craft legislation regarding lobbying reform. Both Senators stressed the importance of bringing a comprehensive, bipartisan bill to the floor of the United States Senate. 
   During his four years representing Pennsylvania in the United States House of Representatives, Senator Santorum worked on Congressional reform to uncover member abuses both in the House bank scandal, as well as the post office scandal. Senator Santorum was leader of reform, holding members of both parties accountable to the American public. When he came to the United States Senate he pushed term limits on committee chairmen, term limits on leaders, and wholeheartedly supported the 1995 Congressional Accountability Act. 
   "I have a strong track record of Congressional reform and ethics reform, and I'm looking forward to taking on this responsibility with my colleague Senator McCain," said Senator Santorum. "It's important...that we have a strong system of ethics reform with respect to lobbying and disclosure. Senator McCain's bill, which he introduced a few months ago, is the basis upon which we're building this architecture for a reform bill." 
   "I'm very appreciative of the work that Rick Santorum has done in the past and his leadership on this issue," said Senator McCain. 
   A video clip is available on Senator Santorum's website. 
   Select Press Office, click on Video Clips.
 
 