SEN. SANTORUM, SBA REACHING OUT TO VICTIMS OF RECENT FLOODS THROUGHOUT NORTHEAST PENNSYLVANIA
  The office of Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today announced that in conjunction with the Philadelphia District Office of the U.S. Small Business Administration has assembled a team which will visit many of the flood damaged areas of the Commonwealth. The team is comprised of numerous agencies that will provide critically needed information on relief resources available to the businesses affected by the recent flooding.  
   Beginning Wednesday, July 19th, the team will travel from place to place to provide as much information as possible to the flood ravaged areas. The meetings will be held in a town hall fashion so that the different agencies can explain the processes and answer questions. 
   The sessions will be held at these locations and times: 
   * JULY 19, 2006 
   9:00 - 11:00 a.m. Carbondale Chamber of Commerce - Carbondale, Lackawanna County 
   12:00 - 2:00 p.m. Great Bend Fire Company - Great Bend, Susquehanna County 
   3:00 - 4:00 p.m. Peoples National Bank - Nicholson, Wyoming County 
   5:00 - 6:30 p.m. Triton Hose Company - Tunkhannock, Wyoming County 
   * JULY 20, 2006 
   8:00 - 10:00 a.m. Chamber Building - Honesdale, Wayne County 
   11:30 a.m. - 1:30 p.m. Matamoras Fire Company - Matamoras, Pike County 
   3:00 - 4:30 p.m. Commissioners Meeting Room - East Stroudsburg, Monroe County 
   6:00 - 7:30 p.m. Lafayette College - Easton, Northampton County 
   * JULY 21, 2006 
   9:00 - 11:00 a.m. Chamber Building - Pottsville, Schuylkill County 
   12:30 - 2:30 p.m. Bloomsburg Technology Center - Bloomsburg, Columbia County 
   3:30 - 5:30 p.m. Kingston Township Building - Shavertown, Luzerne County 
   "These information sessions will be valuable to both business owners and to the government in assessing what the greatest needs are for businesses recovering from flood damage. I join the SBA in encouraging all business owners to attend these information sessions," said Senator Santorum. 
   The following state and federal agencies will be represented: 
   U.S. Small Business Administration 
  Region III 
  Philadelphia District Office 
  Disaster Assistance 
  Federal Emergency Management Agency 
  Pennsylvania Department of Community and Economic Development 
  Small Business Development Centers 
  Certified Development Company 
   The SBA provides low interest loans to business owners, home owners, and renters to repair or replace disaster damaged real estate, inventory, or personal property. Non-profit organizations such as charities, churches, private universities, etc., are also eligible. Loans for working capital to small businesses and small agricultural cooperatives to assist them through the disaster recovery period are also available. 
   "I want to encourage all the business owners in each area to take advantage of this opportunity to meet with the recovery experts and learn about the products and services available to help them. We want them to get recovered from the devastating floods just as quickly as possible." said David C. Dickson, director of the SBA's Philadelphia District Office. 
   For more information, please contact Senator Santorum's Scranton office at 570-344-8799 or John Fleming, the SBA's Public Information Officer in the Philadelphia District Office at 215-580-2718 or john.fleming@sba.gov.
 
 