SEN. SANTORUM MEETS WITH RESIDENTS, HEALTH PROFESSIONALS AT THOMAS JEFFERSON UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL TO DISCUSS MEDICAL LIABILITY CRISIS
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today joined University President Paul C. Brucker, MD to listen to residents and health professionals at Thomas Jefferson University Hospital voice their concerns about the plight of doctors forced to move out of state due to the increasing costs associated with medical malpractice insurance.  
   "Pennsylvania's teaching hospitals, like Thomas Jefferson University Hospital, are a crucial component of our health care system," said Senator Santorum. "We need to keep Pennsylvania medical students and physicians here in the Commonwealth. We are losing some of our best and brightest doctors to other states because of skyrocketing insurance premiums." 
   The Pennsylvania Medical Society reports that private insurance carrier premiums have increased from $265 million to $476 million since from 1998 to 2003. Pennsylvania has dropped from 16th to 41st in the nation in the ranking of states according to the percentage of physicians under the age of 35 practicing medicine. 
   39-year old Robert Lyons is an orthopedic fellow at Thomas Jefferson University Hospital. Lyons, a native of Southampton, Pennsylvania, received his doctor of medicine degree from the Temple University School of Medicine in 1990 and his bachelor's degree in biology from LaSalle University in 1986. 
   Dr. Lyons served as chief of the section of orthopedic surgery at the Walson Air Force Hospital at Fort Dix in Southern New Jersey, where he received the U.S. Air Force's Commendation and Medal for Achievements for his work. 
   Now that he has finished his training, Lyons is forced to relocate his family to North Carolina where the insurance premiums are much less. Lyons, who is married with two young children at home, says he and his wife would prefer to stay in Pennsylvania. 
   "In August we will be moving to Charlotte, North Carolina where the cost of medical malpractice insurance is about 1/10th the cost of insurance premiums here in Philadelphia," said Lyons. "While my parents will miss seeing their grandkids grow up in Pennsylvania, it would be career suicide to stay here." 
   Dr. Lyons, who focused his area of clinical interest on shoulder and elbow reconstruction and hand surgery, is an example of well-trained, high-risk specialists who are leaving the state. 
   According to the Pennsylvania Orthopedic Society, nearly 17% of a surveyed population of practicing orthopedic surgeons reported moving out of state, reducing their surgical services, or retiring early due to the malpractice situation between January of 2001 and June 2002. 
   The crisis has impacted academic medical centers like Jefferson. Jefferson Medical College Dean Thomas Nasca, M.D. recently testified before the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee of the Energy and Commerce Committee of the United States House of Representatives on the loss of faculty from medical schools and the difficulty in recruiting young faculty to replace them as a result of the crisis. 
   "Deterioration of the educational and translational research efforts will have long-term disastrous effects on the public," said Dr. Nasca. "As the country is looking to the academic medical community to solve problems such as cancer and heart disease, while providing protection from bio-terrorism and emerging diseases, the academic medical community will be disintegrating." 
   After listening to residents and experienced doctors, Senator Santorum shared what steps he's taking in Washington, DC to address the crisis. 
   "It's imperative that we reverse the trend," said Santorum. "I will continue to use my position in Senate leadership to push my colleagues to pass meaningful medical liability reform." 
   Senator Santorum has supported 3 prior attempts to pass medical liability reform including measures targeting the plight of OB/GYN's and emergency room doctors. Democratic opposition prevented the measures from moving forward.
   Contact: Amy Hybels, 202/224-8930.
 
 