SEN. SANTORUM TRAVELS TO PITTSBURGH TO TOUR LOCAL DEVELOPER OF BREAKTHROUGH IN ARTIFICIAL LUNG TECHNOLOGY
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today joined Nick Kuhn, President and CEO of ALung Technologies, Inc.; David Groll, VP of Operations; and founder Brack Hattler, who also heads the high risk cardiac surgery program at University of Pittsburgh Medical Center; for a demonstration of new technology that will boost the local biotech economy and provide another tool for the military in fighting the war on terrorism.  
   "We're very excited to have Senator Santorum come and visit our facility," said Nick Kuhn, President and CEO of ALung Technologies. "His support of our technology in its military application is helpful to bringing this to fruition." 
   Senator Santorum will have the opportunity to view a demonstration of the insertion of the device. The Intravenous Membrane Oxygenator (IMO) is a breakthrough artificial lung device that provides 7 days respiratory support in the intensive care for patients with acute breathing problems. Its developers say the new technology will provide a significantly safer and less expensive alternative to mechanical ventilation. 
   Researchers from the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center have partnered with U.S. Army scientists to evaluate the merit of the experimental device for use in battlefield medicine - particularly as a possible treatment for lung injuries sustained in biochemical attacks. 
   Another application, according to CEO Nick Kuhn, includes use in the battlefield to help sustain victims of blunt trauma to the lungs. 
   "If a soldier suffers a lung injury as a result of being shot while wearing a flack jacket, the IMO can be used to help ventilate the victim while their lungs have a chance to recover," said Kuhn. 
   The catheter, made up of a tightly bound fabric of microporous polypropylene hollow-fiber membranes, is inserted temporarily through a vein in the leg and threaded into a major vein near the heart. Early tests show it can substitute 40 percent to 60 percent of a patient's compromised lung function. 
   "This type of technology merits our attention," said Senator Santorum. "This development not only helps revitalize our local economy, but provides a possible life-saving tool for our men and women in uniform." 
   The development of ALung Technology has received strong bipartisan support from the Pennsylvania congressional delegation. Prior federal funding includes $850,000 in FY 99 Department of Defense appropriations; $1 million in FY02 DOD appropriations; $1 million in FY03 DOD appropriations; $1 million in FY04 DOD appropriations. 
   Alung Technologies, Inc. is headquarted on the south side of Pittsburgh off of Carson Street.
   Contact: Amy Hybels, 202/224-8930.
 
 