SEN. SANTORUM: 'MEDICARE-APPROVED PRESCRIPTION DRUG DISCOUNT CARDS WILL OFFER REAL SAVINGS'
 "Medicare-Approved Prescription Drug Discount Cards Will Offer Real Savings"
   Most seniors are aware that President Bush and Congress worked together to enact a Medicare prescription drug bill last year, but they have yet to see tangible evidence of how much they will save because of this new law. That is about to change. This month, Pennsylvania seniors are able to sign up for a Medicare-approved prescription drug discount card that will deliver savings of 10 to 25 percent on their drug expenditures. Some private studies show savings may reach 35 percent or more for generic drugs. The Medicare drug discount card program will empower Pennsylvania's Medicare beneficiaries by giving them a choice between a number of plans offering different benefit levels. Qualifying low-income seniors will also receive a $600 annual credit on their card to further curb the high cost of prescription drugs. These savings will begin on June 1, 2004 and last through the implementation of the permanent Medicare prescription drug benefit in 2006.  
   Medicare beneficiaries currently without prescription drug coverage have the most to gain from signing up with for a Medicare drug discount card. The new discount cards also work with PACE and PACENET. The Pennsylvania Department of Aging has identified 150,000 PACE enrollees who qualify for the $600 credit. Those who have a 2004 annual income less than $12,570 (single person), or $16,863 (married couple), might qualify for the $600 credit on the Medicare-approved prescription drug discount card. These seniors will automatically be enrolled in the drug discount card program. 
   I encourage seniors to learn more about the different drug discount cards available to them by calling 1-800-MEDICARE or by going online to http://www.medicare.gov. TTY users should call 1-877-486-2048. Further competition between competing drug card plans will likely push savings even higher, so seniors should "window shop" for a week or two to find the best benefit. Lastly, seniors should know that the government will never send officials door-to-door to sell them Medicare drug discount cards. If someone calls you or visits your home and attempts to sell you a drug discount card, do not disclose any personal information. Please call the Inspector General's hotline (1-800-HHS-TIPS) to report such instances of Medicare fraud.
 
 