SEN. SANTORUM: STRENGTHENING PENNSYLVANIA'S COMMUNITIES
  At the beginning of each year, the President submits a budget proposal to Congress. This is an important time for Congress as, in concert with the State of the Union, the budget outlines the President's priorities for the coming year. It is also an enormous undertaking, as the budget must pay for everything that the federal government does over the course of the next year. But the truth is that the federal government simply cannot pay for everything. So while the President has his priorities for the country, I have mine for Pennsylvania. At the top of my list is the Community Development Block Grant, or CDBG, program.
   There are lots of different ways that the federal government can use its immense resources to help local governments strengthen communities and improve the lives of its residents. But it has been my experience that the most effective federal programs are the ones that give local officials the power to make decisions. It's a relatively straightforward concept-that those closest to problems best understand how to solve them-and one that I believe should be employed more often. 
   CDBG is a prime example of how this type of governing can be a great success, allowing local officials to confront local problems as they see fit. But, unfortunately, President Bush has repeatedly sought to under fund this program. Last year, he even attempted to eliminate it completely. And just like last year, when I disagreed with the President and was able to help secure $3.7 billion in CDBG funds, I pushed back again this year. Earlier this week, I introduced a budget amendment to increase CDBG funding by $1.3 billion. My amendment was passed with bipartisan support, by a vote of 60-38.
   The CDBG program works by providing funds to local governments with the flexibility that enables local officials to select the most appropriate programs to fight poverty or spur community and economic development in their counties, municipalities or cities. These funds are also used to leverage other sources of funding-such as private investment, loans, or state and local dollars-meaning that the amount of money we provide is often actually worth much more to those who receive them. Philadelphia, in particular, has excelled in leveraging CDBG funds to bring outside dollars into its projects. And because of its localized, hands-on approach, CDBG has been one of the most effective domestic programs we have at successfully revitalizing neighborhoods and helping those in greatest need.
   Over the past few years, the benefits of CDBG for Pennsylvania have been substantial. CDBG funds were used to expand water and sewer lines throughout northwest and central Pennsylvania, granting residents access to water free of iron, sulfur and other minerals. CDBG funded housing programs in Jeannette, that provide financial assistance to low and moderate income individuals for use to purchase and repair their homes, and created a new Teen Center at a YMCA in Dauphin County, which serves an underprivileged population with tutoring and mentoring opportunities. CDBG funds built a Senior Center in Edinboro and allowed for the creation of a Street Crime Reduction unit in York. Last year in Crawford County, the replacement of a road bridge and sewage holding tank was made possible through CDGB funding. The list goes on and on.
   This type of repair and rehabilitation happens all across the country because of the money provided by CDBG. CDBG has been successful because locally driven programs work best to solve local problems, and this is the best venue we have to provide local officials with the funding they need to run such programs. It would be unconscionable to deprive local officials of the ability to do so much good for their communities. By under funding-or worse, not funding at all-the CDBG program, this is exactly what Congress would be doing. I'm not willing to allow that to happen. My amendment instructs the appropriators to fund CDBG at a level that will allow local officials in Pennsylvania, and in states across the nation, to continue to solve problems and make people's lives better. And moving forward, the CDBG program will continue to have my full support.
 
 