IRS FACILITY PROJECT AT 30TH STREET IN PHILADELPHIA GETS GREEN LIGHT
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today announced Congressional approval of the IRS Regional Service Center Project at the 30th Street Post Office; this is one of the largest construction projects in the city's history. This is a significant announcement and the completed project will bring more than 4,500 professional jobs and an additional 3,000 construction jobs to Philadelphia. The project also preserves the historically significant postal facility which was originally constructed between 1932 and 1935.  
   "This is great news for the City of Philadelphia," said Senator Santorum. "I supported this project from the start and I am pleased to see it come to fruition. This project will not only bring jobs to the region but will allow the 30th Street facility to maintain its historic integrity." 
   Senator Santorum worked with many of the local stakeholders including Philadelphia Building and Construction Trades Council, the University of Pennsylvania, and The Keating Group, to bring this project to the attention of the IRS as a solution to their need for a Regional Service Center. In April 2005, Senator Santorum met with IRS Commissioner, Mark Everson, to highlight the benefits of bringing this center to the Philadelphia site. 
   "This is another example of how Senator Santorum has worked for good paying union jobs in Southeastern Pennsylvania," said Pennsylvania State Representative Bill Keller (D-184). 
   The Senate Environment and Public Works Committee authorized the General Services Administration (GSA) to enter into a property lease with the United States Postal Service for 862,000 square feet of space at its 30th Street facility in Philadelphia. The GSA will be procuring the space as a home for the Regional Service Center of the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). The action of the Senate Committee, together with the authorization of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee on September 20, 2006 allows the GSA to move forward with the project. 
   Representatives from the University of Pennsylvania, The Keating Group, and Philadelphia Building and Construction Trades Council joined the Senator for this significant announcement.
 
 