SEN. SANTORUM, REP. HART, REP. MURPHY ANNOUNCE REDESIGNATION OF PARKWAY WEST AT I-376 FROM DOWNTOWN PITTSBURGH TO BEAVER COUNTY
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, Rep. Melissa Hart (R-PA-04), Rep. Tim Murphy (R-PA-18), and Allegheny County Chief Executive Dan Onorato, today announced the redesignation of the Parkway West as I-376.  
   The Parkway West connects the corridor from downtown Pittsburgh to the Pennsylvania Turnpike in Beaver County. Currently the Parkway West starts as I-279, becomes PA Route 22/30, and then PA Route 60 from the Pittsburgh International Airport to Beaver County. 
   "Senator Specter and I worked hard in the U.S. Senate to make sure that the redesignation of the Parkway West was included in the recent SAFETEA-LU bill. Redesignating the entire Parkway West as I-376 will increase access to and from downtown Pittsburgh, the Pittsburgh International Airport and points north into Beaver, Lawrence, and Mercer counties," said Senator Santorum. "Many businesses have expanded west and north of the city bringing economic growth and new jobs to Allegheny County. The redesignation of the Parkway West will increase accessibility and location identity to the business corridor along the Parkway." 
   Congresswoman Hart noted the I-376 designation would spur economic growth for the region and provide a crucial link for the airport to the Federal Highway System. "Designating this stretch of road as I-376 is an important win and will help contribute to the economic development of the whole region. When tourists look at this stretch of road on a map they currently see a patchwork of what appears to be secondary roads. This designation changes that and eliminates confusion for drivers. Connecting the Pittsburgh Airport to the Interstate Highway System is an important step forward in promoting this corridor and the region," said Congresswoman Hart. 
   "The I-376 designation is a logical and critical step toward improving our regional transportation system, and it will help spark additional development along the airport corridor," said Allegheny County Chief Executive Dan Onorato. "I would like to thank Senator Santorum and Congresswoman Hart for making this designation possible." 
   Senator Santorum also delivered federal funding today that he secured in the SAFETEA-LU bill for the PA Route 22/30 interchange with PA Route 60. 
   "I am pleased to deliver $1 million for upgrading the 22/30 interchange," said Senator Santorum. "Together the improvement to this heavily trafficked interchange and the I-376 redesignation will increase the flow of commercial and local commerce throughout southwestern Pennsylvania." 
   "The current interchange between Route 60 and Rt. 22/30 is outdated and the turn is dangerous. The redesign will make it safer and as a result of the modernization, the Tonidale/Bayer intersection will also be shifted to improve safety and access to Bayer Cooperation's headquarters, a major employer in the region. The increased access along the Rt.22/30 corridor will lead to future development and growth in the area," said Congressman Tim Murphy. 
   President Bush recently signed the SAFETEA-LU bill, which also provides a federal funding formula on which states receive a return on money paid in federal gasoline taxes. Through his leadership position as Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, Senator Santorum fought to keep Pennsylvania a donee state under the bill's formula, which means the Commonwealth will receive more from the Highway Trust Fund than it contributes. The previous version of the bill, considered in the 108th Congress, made Pennsylvania a donor state with a rate of return of $.97 for every dollar it paid into the fund. The SAFETEA-LU bill Senator Santorum helped to pass ensures that Pennsylvania will never receive less than $1.13 for every dollar contributed.
   Contact: Robert Traynham, 202/224-0610.
 
 