'WHAT WENT WRONG'
 By Sen. Rick Santorum
   As we pass the third anniversary of the September 11th terrorist attacks, it is important to understand our intelligence community's failures prior to 9/11 in order to make the appropriate thoughtful changes. This is an historic opportunity - we seldom get the chance to delve into something that so greatly affects the security of our country.  
   The 9/11 Commission Final Report revealed that the intelligence community suffered from several institutional failures prior to 9/11. Specifically, the intelligence community failed to consider al Qaeda a domestic threat, failed to upgrade their intelligence capabilities after the Cold War, and failed to share intelligence information across agency lines. 
   Prior to 9/11, al Qaeda was not a priority. Despite data and analytical reports regarding al Qaeda and a possible attack, our intelligence community was busy focusing on other threats such as Pakistan and Saudi Arabia. As the record shows, our intelligence community failed to imagine a terrorist attack on our soil using our commercial aircraft. 
   For example, the 1995 National Intelligence Estimate (NIE) predicted that there could be a future terrorist attack against our nation, where the attack might occur, and that the probability of it happening would increase over time. The NIE even specified that "transient groupings of individuals" that did not have "strong organization but rather are loose affiliations" were an emerging threat. 
   However, it appears that observations in the NIE were not pursued. The 1997 NIE update barely mentioned al Qaeda or Osama bin Laden as it had two years before. Had the NIE's 1995 conclusions been analyzed, we might have avoided future attacks. Despite several papers analyzing bin Laden's tactics and possible use of aircraft, the analysts did not think outside the box and consider the use of our aircraft as a weapon. 
   Additionally, our intelligence capabilities suffered from complacency -failing to keep pace with 21st century threats. Our intelligence agencies were fighting terrorism with a Cold War mindset. We did not have sufficient intelligence methods to track al Qaeda's emerging capabilities, and little was done to expand or reform our intelligence capabilities on counterterrorism. There was a feeling amongst intelligence agencies and government officials that updating our capabilities would be too costly, too disruptive, or attract too much controversy. 
   The most prominent failure was the lack of information sharing. Because information was not shared, we missed opportunities to stop the terrorist attacks well before September 2001. The FBI was not communicating with the CIA, and neither entity communicated effectively with the Department of Defense. The State Department, CIA, FBI, and Department of Defense were all operating separately instead of working together in joint domestic and foreign operations against terrorist cells. 
   As we can see, there was a severe lack of coordination and authority among our intelligence agencies. Much of this is attributed to flaws in the structure of our government. No single administration is to blame for our intelligence failures. Our system has become murky due to several years of policy change. It is Congress' job to wade through the muck of our system and carefully weigh the pros and cons associated with each institutional change. 
   Over the next weeks and months Congress will consider the recommendations put forth by the 9/11 Commission. As we thoughtfully consider fundamental changes, we can all agree that our intelligence community must make substantial improvements in the way intelligence is collected, analyzed, and disseminated so that future threats to our nation are dealt with correctly and swiftly. We must be prudent in making these decisions, as there is a great need to do this right. 
   I believe Congress must also change and play a larger role in the oversight of intelligence agencies. I suggest broadening the Intelligence Committee's jurisdiction, and making it a permanent committee. Committee members currently do not have access to continuing intelligence information and analysis. In order for the Intelligence Committee to make informed decisions and adequately serve fellow policy makers, the executive branch, and Americans, members must have access to ongoing intelligence information and be allowed to serve on the Committee indefinitely. 
   We must also have a cabinet level individual oversee our intelligence community and they must be given budget authority and the ability to hire, fire, and set policy. Without the ability to control purse strings, they lack power. 
   Most importantly, Congress must be willing to go the extra mile - spend the time and energy needed - to make sure that our intelligence community is prepared to respond to potential future attacks on our nation, whatever they may be.
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 