SENS. SANTORUM, SPECTER ANNOUNCE COMMITTEE APPROVAL OF $1 MILLION IN FUNDING FOR CITY OF READING
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, and U.S. Senator Arlen Specter (R-PA), a senior member of the U.S. Senate Appropriations Committee, announced this week that the Senate Appropriations Committee has approved federal funding for the City of Reading.  
   The funding will be used to integrate data from different sectors of the city, including the Police Department, Emergency Management Services (EMS), Public Works, Community Development and the Water Authority. The integration is designed to use mapping technology for the implementation of Police and Fire personnel deployment, housing and neighborhood redevelopment initiatives, and to protect the area's water supply. The system will increase the emergency preparedness capability of the City of Reading and examine the relationship of crime to certain communities in the area. Identifying these target areas will allow the city to combat crime more effectively. 
   "The integration project that Reading plans to implement with this funding will increase safety and quality of life in Reading neighborhoods," Santorum stated. "Reading will be equipped with the necessary means and knowledge to face threats and fight crime in their community. I look forward to final approval of the funding so Reading may begin this important effort to secure the city." 
   "I applaud my colleagues on the Senate Appropriations Committee for approving this important funding for the City of Reading," Senator Specter said. "Residents of the City will benefit from the creation of these programs which will decrease crime, enhance emergency preparedness, and improve housing and neighborhood options." 
   The funding is part of the Commerce/Justice/State appropriations bill, which is pending final passage by both chambers of Congress, followed by the President's approval.
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610. 
 
 