SEN. SANTORUM KEYNOTE SPEAKER IN NATIONAL INVESTOR RELATIONS INSTITUTE PANEL DISCUSSION IN DOWNTOWN PITTSBURGH
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today was the keynote speaker in a panel discussion at The Rivers Club in Allegheny County.  
   The discussion, sponsored by the National Investor Relations Institute (NIRI), focused on the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, legislation intended to restore investor confidence in the U.S. financial markets after accounting scandals in recent years and set a new standard for corporate responsibility. 
   "I appreciate this opportunity to discuss the Sarbanes-Oxley Act which set a new standard for corporate responsibility in our nation's public companies," said Senator Santorum. "I believe this bipartisan bill has done much to restore investor confidence in our markets and to help prevent future corporate and accounting corruption. The U.S. financial markets, despite recent troubles, are still the most fair and efficient in the world." 
   In his role as a member of the Senate Banking Committee, Senator Santorum is able to provide guidance and oversight to the Securities and Exchange Commission and other regulatory bodies on matters that may impact accounting standards and regulations, financial reporting, and corporate governance. Senator Santorum is also a member of the Senate Finance Committee. 
   "I am pleased that Senator Santorum could join us for a productive discussion on how Sarbanes-Oxley has changed the way companies interact with the financial markets in Pittsburgh and across the nation, and any future legislative changes that might be considered," said Thomas F. Hoffman, president of NIRI-Pittsburgh and Vice President, Investor and Public Relations at CONSOL Energy Inc. in Pittsburgh. 
   In addition to Senator Santorum, the expert panel included Joanne O'Rourke Hindman, Special Advisor to the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board; Joseph Diggins, Partner, Ernst & Young Business Risk Services; Michael Fox, Vice President of Finance at Pittsburgh-based iGate Corporation; and William Lyons, Chief Financial Officer at CONSOL Energy in Pittsburgh. 
   NIRI is the professional association of corporate officers and investor relations consultants responsible for communication among corporate management, shareholders, security analysts and other financial publics. The NIRI Pittsburgh Chapter is comprised of more than 40 members from large and small public companies, and from firms that serve public companies.
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610. 
 
 