SEN. SANTORUM VISITS WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA SCHOOL OF NURSING; PRESENTS FUNDING FOR BURN TRAUMA CENTER
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, visited the Western Pennsylvania Hospital School of Nursing in Allegheny County today to receive a tour and present funding to the Burn Trauma Center.  
   "I appreciate this opportunity to see firsthand the quality education that the Western Pennsylvania School of Nursing provides to its students," said Senator Santorum. 
   "West Penn Hospital has maintained a strong commitment to educating healthcare professionals for more than a century, and a cornerstone of that mission is our School of Nursing," said James M. Collins, president and chief executive officer of West Penn Hospital. "We appreciate Senator Santorum's interest in helping institutions like ours continue to provide high quality education, particularly to tomorrow's nurses in light of the continuing shortage." 
   Following the tour, Santorum presented $250,000 for the Burn Trauma Center at the Western Pennsylvania Hospital. The funding will be used for general improvements to the center. The Burn Trauma Center is the largest and most sophisticated unit in the region and a leader in burn care education and research. West Penn's Burn Trauma Center has treated more than 7,000 inpatients and 10,000 outpatients in its 30 years, placing it among the top burn care facilities in the nation. 
   "We thank Senator Santorum for supporting the work of our Burn Trauma Center by securing this grant with his colleague, Senator Arlen Specter," Mr. Collins said. "As the region's largest burn center, West Penn Hospital serves not just the immediate Pittsburgh community, but all of western Pennsylvania. This money will assist us in assuring that we continue to provide leading edge burn care." 
   "The Burn Trauma Center at West Penn is very important not only to Pittsburgh, but to the entire western Pennsylvania region, as it is one of the top facilities of its kind," Santorum said. "I am pleased that I was able to assist in securing this funding for expansion of the center."
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610. 
 
 