SENS. SANTORUM, SPECTER, REPS. GERLACH, PITTS ANNOUNCE BROWNFIELDS ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT INITIATIVE GRANT AWARD FOR READING
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, Sen. Arlen Specter (R-PA), a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Rep. Jim Gerlach (R-PA-6) and Rep. Joe Pitts (R-PA-16) today announced a $1 million federal grant from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) for the City of Reading.  
   The award for Reading is a Brownfields Economic Development Initiative (BEDI) Grant; additionally HUD is providing a Section 108 Loan for $1.5 million. The funds will be used for redevelopment of a brownfield site to a new 200-room hotel on Penn Street in downtown Reading, across from the Sovereign Arena. 
   The hotel will include 9,000 square feet of flexible meeting space, club dining, a pool and spa, a fitness center and a 17,000 square foot ballroom. The facility is expected to create 110 new jobs and cost a total of $29 million. 
   "I have toured many brownfield sites across our state and I understand the great cost associated with their clean up and redevelopment. I am pleased to see HUD award Reading with federal funding that is crucial to community revitalization, future economic development and attracting new residents," said Senator Santorum. 
   "The grant provided by HUD will allow proper clean up of the hazardous materials contaminating this site, enhancing environmental safety, spurring economic development, and creating new jobs," Senator Specter said. "This project is an important piece in downtown Reading's revitalization and I am pleased HUD has established it as a priority in providing this funding." 
   "This is wonderful news for the city of Reading," said Representative Gerlach. "This significant investment in our community will ensure that Reading and Berks County continue to prosper and grow." 
   "I'm pleased to see HUD helping our local communities improve," Representative Pitts said. "By turning abandoned property into a productive new development, this grant will help make the city of Reading a better place to live, work and visit." 
   Brownfields are once-functional industrial commercial sites that are now abandoned, inactive or under-used, and have been affected by environmental contamination. The process of cleaning up these sites to make them viable again is costly and time consuming. While the price tag varies with each site, it is not uncommon for the cleanup of a major site to cost between $500,000 and $1 million due to of environmental pollutants. 
   In February 2005 Senator Santorum reintroduced legislation with Senator Evan Bayh (D-IN) that would allow the expensing of brownfields cleanup costs to be a permanent fixture of the Tax Code. 
   The Santorum-Bayh legislation would extend tax provisions to offset the costs of rehabilitating these sites and would make the incentives permanent. Since a large percentage of brownfields across the country are contaminated with petroleum, the bill would also broaden the qualifying definition of "hazardous substances," which would enable petroleum-contaminated sites to be eligible for the tax incentives as well.
 
 