SEN. SANTORUM PRESENTS FUNDING IN MONROE, BERKS COUNTIES, VISITS EASTON AREA HIGH SCHOOL BAND
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today presented federal funding in Monroe and Berks counties; he also met with the Easton Area High School Band in Northampton County.  
   Senator Santorum presented the Pocono Healthy Communities Alliance (PHCA) in Stroudsburg, Monroe County with a check for $100,000 from the Department of Health and Human Services portion of the fiscal year 2005 Omnibus Appropriations bill. 
   PoconoInfo is a web-based information and referral system that enables individuals to access health and human services in Monroe County. Access to PoconoInfo is available to consumers and professionals via the Internet (www.poconoalliance.org ) 24 hours a day, seven days a week; PoconoInfo is available via phone and walk-in during regular PHCA office hours Monday through Friday. 
   "Taking proactive measures to keep Pennsylvanians healthy is vital to reducing insurance costs, medical examination fees and prescription drugs," said Senator Santorum. "This funding will be used by Pocono Healthy Communities Alliance to enhance their information referral program, PoconoInfo. This proactive program will help make medical information and recommendations available to their members so that they have access to responsible and reliable information regarding their healthcare." 
   The need for a countywide information and referral system had been identified, based on community assessments, as a critical community need for the past thirty years. This funding for PoconoInfo will be used for case management, the continued training of local professionals on effective utilization of the system for their clients, and outreach into the community. 
   "The staff, Board of Directors, and consumers of Pocono Healthy Communities Alliance would like to thank Senator Santorum and his staff for the very generous grant that will enable us to strengthen and enhance the PoconoInfo program," said Eve Wenger, Co-Director of the Pocono Healthy Communities Alliance. 
   Senator Santorum then traveled to Northampton County to visit the Easton Area High School Red Rover Marching Band. The band has been selected to participate in the Presidential Inaugural Parade on January 20, 2005 in Washington, DC. 
   "January 20th, 2005 will be a date these 243 young musicians and their families will remember forever. Thanks to the written support of Senator Santorum and Representative Charlie Dent (R-PA-15), the Easton Area High School Red Rover Marching Band will have this exciting opportunity to appear in the Presidential Inaugural Parade," said Carole Lutte, Director of Instrumental Music at Easton Area High School. 
   During the Senator's visit today the band played selections that they have been rehearsing for the Inaugural Parade. Upon receiving notification that the band had submitted a request to be considered to perform in the Presidential Inaugural Parade, Senator Santorum sent a letter to the Joint Task Force Armed Forces Inaugural Committee endorsing the band for consideration to perform in the parade. 
   "The talented and energetic Easton Area High School Red Rover Marching Band gave an outstanding preview performance today. It is an honor to perform for the President of the United States, and on such a special occasion in our American history as the Presidential Inauguration. I am proud that Pennsylvania will be represented in the Presidential Inaugural Parade by these exceptional youth," said Senator Santorum. 
   Following his visits to Monroe and Northampton counties, Senator Santorum was also in Kutztown, Berks County at the Rodale Institute to present funding for continued agriculture research and educational outreach. Congressman Jim Gerlach (R-PA-6) joined Senator Santorum to deliver $146,000 from the fiscal year 2005 Omnibus Appropriations bill. 
   The funding came through two departments for the Rodale Institute; $46,000 was secured with the help of United States Senator Arlen Specter (R-PA) through the Department of Agriculture. This funding will be used for continued Abuscular Mycorrhizal Fungi (AMF) research. With this funding the Rodale Institute and U.S.D.A. Agricultural Research Service (ARS) will be able to conduct joint research on the beneficial microorganisms that infect the roots of many crop plants. On-site farm research conducted by the Rodale Institute showed that inoculating vegetable crops with the AMF could increase crop yields by up to 45 percent. 
   In the United States Senate, Senator Santorum worked to secure $100,000 in the U.S. Department of Education Fund for the Improvement of Education, which will be used by the Rodale Institute for the development and support of a health and environmental education website for children. Congressman Gerlach also supported this funding in the House of Representatives. 
   "I am pleased that we were able to secure this funding for the Rodale Institutes educational website," said Senator Santorum. "It is important that we support educational tools like this website, which is dedicated to helping children and their families understand how their food is grown and where it comes from, so they can make informed decisions about healthy eating." 
   "I am excited to be here with Senator Santorum to present this funding for the Rodale Institute, a fine organization doing great things in Berks County," said Representative Gerlach. "This funding will help Rodale with its latest endeavor - an educational website for families and children interested in learning more about the environment around them."
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 