A FRESH LOOK
  Since our nation's founding, America has gone through many turbulent, demanding times. And each of these times has required our citizens to call on reserves of the characteristics that have long defined who we are as Americans. Characteristics like strength, courage, compassion, and above all, an unflinching devotion to liberty. Liberty, a simple, powerful word, drove General Washington's rag-tag army to persevere through the brutal winter of 1778. It rallied the men of the 20th Maine on Little Round Top, gave courage to the men that hit the beaches of Normandy, and stiffened our spines to stare down the threat of global communism. But liberty does not come without sacrifice, and generations of Americans have stood up to the forces of tyranny and oppression to defend freedom, both at home and abroad.  
   The challenge for liberty today, and the challenge for our generation, is the spread of Islamic fascism and the terrorist tactics they employ. But this war is different from other wars we have fought, for a variety of reasons. In the past we have fought uniformed soldiers fighting for a nation with a conventional military strategy. The enemy and battle lines were better defined, and the rationale for the struggle and sacrifice was more apparent to the American people. The consequences of losing were clearer, as was our continuing progress towards victory. But just because this conflict is drastically different, and in some ways more difficult to understand than those of the past, Americans cannot afford to believe that it is any less important. For in that belief lies the only chance the terrorists have of defeating us in this war. 
   With the successful elections in Iraq and the Iraqi citizens making significant progress towards the formation of a government, we are at a critical juncture in this war against Islamic fascism. But make no mistake about it - this is a time of great peril for our citizens. While some dismiss our enemies as a threat, believing them to be incapable of defeating our soldiers on the battlefield, we must remember that they accomplished something that no enemy of America had done in almost two centuries - attack our homeland and murder American civilians. They cannot be underestimated. 
   Nor can we underestimate the consequences of failure - for a snapshot of the future of Iraq following a premature American withdrawal, just look at Iran, the world's leading state-sponsor of terrorism. It is well passed time that the leaders of this country, of both parties, focus our attention on executing a plan to successfully establish a stable democracy in Iraq and bring freedom to those who have consistently suffered the tyrannical rule of Islamic fascism and brutal dictators. 
   It is also important that we all remember the lessons of history - transformations of the scale we are undertaking in Iraq take time. Following the removal of the Nazi regime in Germany, we maintained a robust military presence in Western Europe. Why? Because we knew it would take time to develop a new political culture, a culture based on the expansion, not repression, of freedom. We knew that if we left, the void created by our departure would likely be filled by another totalitarian regime. Our approach to Iraq, and to Islamic fascism, should not be any different than our response to European fascism post World War II. 
   There is too much at stake here, not just for America, but for the entire world. We need men and women of character today to step forward - men and women who understand that victory in this war is too important to be sabotaged by political battles here at home. Which is why, last week, I joined my colleague Frank Wolf in calling on the President to cooperate with a group of such Americans, tasked with traveling to Iraq to assess how we best accomplish our objectives, as well as our progress towards those objectives, and provide an analysis and recommendation for the President, Congress, and the American people to consider. This group should be comprised of former military and civilian leaders from prior administrations and Congress, as well as from think tanks and academia. They should be of both parties, but sufficiently detached from them. And their focus should be on looking forward, not simply on critiquing our policies of the past. 
   America has long stood as a bastion of liberty in the world. We are once again engaged with an enemy who has directly assaulted that liberty and looks to crush our commitment to it - a commitment responsible for the very founding of our nation. We must uphold the traditions of those who came before us, those who sacrificed so much to keep our nation strong and free. Our soldiers are the best in the world - we know that we will always be able to lean on their immense strength and character. It is up to us to not fail them, to ensure that we are waging this war in the most efficient, most effective way possible. For, as former Secretary of Defense Melvin Laird stated, "Our troops are not fighting to preserve the right of Iraqis to vote. They are fighting to preserve modern culture, Western democracy, the global economy, and all else that is threatened by the spread of barbarism in the name of religion." But it is not just their fight - it is a fight that must be waged by all Americans. And it is a fight that we cannot afford to lose.
 
 