SENS. SANTORUM, DODD INTRODUCE BIPARTISAN LEGISLATION TO COMBAT AUTISM
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today was joined by Sen. Christopher Dodd (D-CT), ranking member of the Subcommittee on Education and Early Childhood Development, to introduce the Combating Autism Act of 2005.  
   Joining the Senators for the introduction of the bill was Bob Wright, Vice-Chairman of General Electric, Chairman and CEO of NBC; Jonathan Shestack, Founder of Cure Autism Now Foundation; and Prisca Chen Marvin, Board Chair of the National Alliance for Autism Research. 
   The Combating Autism Act of 2005 builds on the provisions of the Children's Health Act of 2000 and would authorize $860 million over five years to combat autism through research, screening, intervention, and education. 
   The legislation requires the development and oversight of a strategic plan and budget for research on autism, based upon the research recommendations contained in the existing Autism Research Roadmap and Matrix of the Interagency Autism Coordinating Committee. It also reauthorizes the National Institutes of Health Centers of Excellence Program in autism originally created in 2000, doubling the number of authorized centers. 
   "Autism is a profound condition that can have a devastating effect on children and their families," said Senator Dodd. "We as a nation must devote significantly increased resources to finding answers to the many questions surrounding autism. Families struggling to raise a child with autism deserve our support, and they deserve answers. The legislation we introduce today will move us toward a better understanding of autism and better supporting those living with this difficult disability." 
   Autism is a severe neurological disorder that affects language, cognition, emotional development, and the ability to relate and interact with others. Current estimates suggest that over one million Americans suffer from some form of autism. For unknown reasons, the number of children diagnosed with autism has skyrocketed in recent years, from one in 10,000 children born ten years ago to approximately one in 166 children born today. Although it is more common than Down syndrome, childhood cancer, and cystic fibrosis, autism research currently receives less funding than these other childhood diseases. 
   "Autism is a difficult disease to diagnose and treat, which is why we need to conduct further research, encourage screenings and intervention, as well as foster public awareness and understanding of this disease. It is important that those who care for individuals living with autism know how best to help their loved ones overcome the daily challenges presented by this disorder," said Senator Santorum. "The Combat Autism Act of 2005 significantly increases federal funding with regard to autism, for example the legislation includes Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) grants so states can develop early screening programs. The goal of early screening programs is to ensure that all children are screened for autism before their second birthday and that children at risk for autism receive appropriate services as early as possible."
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610; Sean Oblack, 202/224-5372.
 
 