SEN. SANTORUM ATTENDS I-376 SIGN UNVEILING IN BEAVER COUNTY, PRESENTS BOROUGH OF MARS WITH BELL FROM USS MARS
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Rep. Melissa Hart, Rep. Tim Murphy and other local officials today in Hopewell Township, Beaver County, unveiled the first of the new I-376 corridor signs. Sens. Santorum and Specter, along with other members of the Pennsylvania delegation, worked to include the redesignation of the I-376 corridor in the Safe, Accountable, Flexible and Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (SAFETEA-LU), a transportation authorization bill.
   "For years area residents and visitors have known this one road as three or four different route numbers including Interstate 279, S.R. 22/30, and S.R. 60. When improvements are complete, there will be one route number to destinations - Interstate 376. The process of renaming I-376 will increase access to and from downtown Pittsburgh, the Pittsburgh International Airport and points north into Beaver, Lawrence, and Mercer counties," said Senator Santorum. 
   "The separate route names associated with the future I-376 corridor have caused many headaches for Pittsburgh visitors and for businesses trying to direct interested customers to their stores," said Senator Specter. "This designation of I-376 will give the roadway a uniform number throughout the region, making it easier for travelers to reach their destinations and for businesses to bring new growth to the area."
   Senator Santorum fought to keep Pennsylvania a donee state under the bill's formula, which means the Commonwealth will receive more from the Highway Trust Fund than it contributes. The previous version of the bill, considered in the 108th Congress, made Pennsylvania a donor state with a rate of return of $.97 for every dollar it paid into the fund. The SAFETEA-LU bill Senator Santorum helped to pass ensures that Pennsylvania will never receive less than $1.13 for every dollar Pennsylvania contributes.
   Later today, Senator Santorum was in Mars, Butler County to present the bell from the USS Mars to the Borough of Mars at a dedication ceremony.
   Throughout its years of service, the USS Mars maintained a special connection with the Butler County community. This connection was exemplified by the regular correspondence between students from the Mars Area School District and the crew of the USS Mars, since they shared the same name. The ship was placed out of service in 1998 and retired in Pearl Harbor.
   "Although we celebrate Veterans Day once a year, every day we should thank our veterans. Having the bell of the USS Mars in the borough that shares its same name is a wonderful way to commemorate the memory of those who served aboard the USS Mars, including southwestern Pennsylvania native, Arthur Sweetland a member of the ship's original crew who is here today," said Senator Santorum.
   Mars Mayor Dick Settlemire contacted Senator Santorum in October 2005 about securing the bell from the USS Mars as a main attraction in the center of Mars. In November 2005, Senator Santorum contacted the Head Curator at the Department of the Navy, Naval Historical Center to inquire about having the bell from the USS Mars for the Borough of Mars. The Borough of Mars completed an application to acquire the bell. The application was accepted and upon notification from Senator Santorum, Mayor Settlemire traveled to Washington, DC to pick up the bell.
   "On behalf of the Borough of Mars I want to thank Senator Santorum for assisting us in getting the bell from the USS Mars here today," said Dick Settlemire, Mayor of the Borough of Mars. "Having become a grandfather a year ago, I think it is very important to have a piece of history to ever remind us of the men and women who have served our country so unselfishly and to remain in our Borough for many generations to come."
 
 