SEN. SANTORUM ANNOUNCES DEPARTMENT OF LABOR ENERGY INDUSTRY GRANT FOR PENNSYLVANIA
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, announced an Energy Industry Grant for Pennsylvania from the Department of Labor.  
   "I am pleased that Secretary Chao and the Department of Labor have provided a grant in the amount of $572,670 to Penn State University and its partners to develop an Associate of Engineering Technology Degree in Mining Technology. This type of education will address the need for employees who are skilled in the use of mining equipment and mining safety," said Senator Santorum. "As the grandson of a coal miner, it is encouraging to see that technology training continues to improve and provide employment opportunities for this vital industry in Pennsylvania." 
   As a result of increased energy demands from world markets and continued emphasis on coal for electric power generation, the coal industry in Pennsylvania and surrounding states is experiencing a corresponding increase in coal-mining employment opportunities. 
   The program being developed for introduction at Penn State's Fayette Campus in Uniontown will give students the opportunity to learn to operate today's sophisticated mining equipment through the use of simulators. In addition to his support of this program, Senator Santorum has been working since 2001 to promote the development of the nation's first coal-to-liquid fuel plant in Pennsylvania. 
   "I worked closely with the Secretary and the Department to identify this particular job training initiative. Currently, in my state we face an immediate shortage of employees specifically educated and qualified to meet the growing technological demands of the mining industry. My hope is that this job training initiative will keep employment opportunities in Pennsylvania and create quality, skilled jobs," said Senator Santorum. 
   "Increased demand for energy is creating job opportunities for Pennsylvanians with the advanced skills energy producers need," said Secretary of Labor Elaine L .Chao. "This half-million dollar grant under President Bush's High Growth Job Training Initiative will enable Penn State to develop a mining technology curriculum that Pennsylvania workers can access to build good careers in the energy sector."
   Contact: Robert Traynham, 202/224-0610.
 
 