SEN. SANTORUM TOURS CAMBRIA COUNTY ASSOCIATION FOR THE BLIND AND HANDICAPPED
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today toured the Cambria County Association for the Blind and Handicapped (CCABH). He also met with employees, thanking them for the various products they produce for worldwide distribution.  
   The Association has three areas of manufacturing - hooks and hangers for above and below ground mining, sewing, and food service kits. More than 1,000 mines in over 15 countries around the world depend on the cable hangers and mine safety products manufactured at CCABH. 
   The Association employs 270 persons with severe disabilities and serves an additional 250 persons living throughout Cambria County with their low-vision and chore services programs. With an annual budget of over 10 million dollars, CCABH produces quality products for worldwide distribution, made by persons with severe disabilities living in Cambria County. 
   "I am pleased to have the opportunity to see the fine work and quality products at Cambria County Association for the Blind and Handicapped. This Association, which has various organizations statewide, is a wonderful enterprise to keep severely disabled Pennsylvanians socially and economically engaged," said Senator Santorum. "As I travel throughout our state I am always made proud by the countless number of nonprofit organizations serving their communities with compassion and action. I will continue to work in the United States Senate for ways individuals can help non-profits like CCABH." 
   As a member of the U.S. Senate Finance Committee and Chairman of the Subcommittee on Social Security and Family Policy, Senator Santorum has been a leader in the Senate, working in a bipartisan fashion on reform legislation regarding charitable giving and charitable organizations. 
   Last year, Senator Santorum and Senator Lieberman introduced the CARE Act. In the last Congress, the CARE Act garnered the endorsements of more than 1,600 organizations and passed the Senate with overwhelming bipartisan support. However, partisan politics prevented the bill from going to conference. If passed during the 109th Congress, the CARE Act will provide new and increased incentives for charitable giving as well as broadly supported commonsense reforms. The heart of the charitable giving provisions in the CARE Act were included in the Senate passed Tax Relief Act of 2005 (S. 2020). 
   "We are pleased to have Senator Santorum tour our Ebensburg Division. I am glad the Senator has this opportunity to see first-hand the quality work done by severely disabled people. These are people who cannot find or hold competitive jobs in the workplace, yet we have found productive work that they can accomplish to manufacture world class products right here in central Pennsylvania," said Dick Bosserman, President of Cambria County Association for the Blind and Handicapped.
 
 