SEN. SANTORUM ANNOUNCES PLANS TO INTRODUCE MATH, SCIENCE EDUCATION LEGISLATION AT PENN-TRAFFORD HIGH SCHOOL
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today spoke with students from Penn-Trafford High School about the importance of quality education in math and sciences and how his legislation will strengthen and improve such education in America's classrooms so the United States can continue to sustain a highly competitive workforce.  
   "I commend the Penn-Trafford School District for its high scores in reading, math, and writing. While there is positive news here at Penn-Trafford, I am very concerned that America's students are not keeping pace with other countries," said Senator Santorum. "While America's fourth graders are among the top students in the world in math and science, by twelfth grade, our students are scoring near the bottom of all industrialized nations. We need to make sure that our students and teachers have the resources necessary that enable America's children to excel in math, science, engineering, and technology, and are prepared to compete in the global economy." 
   The National Academy of Sciences' October 2005 report, Rising Above the Gathering Storm, found that U.S. twelfth graders recently performed below the international average for twenty-one countries on a test of general knowledge in math and science. Simultaneously, America is graduating fewer engineers than our global competitors and math graduate statistics are just as troubling. To address these statistics Senator Santorum is planning to introduce a K-12 education bill in the near future that will strengthen and improve math and science education in America. 
   "The legislation I plan to introduce seeks to address the problem that America is graduating fewer math and science majors than our global competitors by providing incentives to encourage individuals to pursue math, science, engineering, and technology degrees, including teaching in these subject areas," said Senator Santorum. 
   Senator Santorum's legislation will seek to strengthen and improve the skills of our nation's math and science teachers by providing opportunities for continuing education and advanced programs that focus on rigorous science and mathematics content and pedagogy. 
   Senator Santorum would also like to encourage more opportunities to increase the number of students taking AP science and math courses and increase public-private partnerships through which students' understanding of the exciting work that industries using math, science, technology, and engineering across America are doing every day can be enhanced. 
   "The Penn-Trafford School District takes great pride in holding itself accountable to providing students with an education that prepares them to be productive members of tomorrow's workforce, and we are honored with Senator Santorum's visit to our district today. The Senator's acknowledgement of the importance and relevance of learning math and science provides our students with insight into their futures. Mr. Santorum's presence affirms that education is the hope for our country's future and it connects the value of a good education to future success," said Peggy DiNinno, Penn-Trafford School District Spokeswoman. 
   Following his visit to Penn-Trafford High School, Senator Santorum joined USDA Rural Development Administrator, Jim Andrew; USDA Rural Development Deputy Administrator, Rural Utilities Program, Curtis M. Anderson; USDA Rural Development Pennsylvania State Director, Gary H. Groves; PA State Senator Bob Regola (R-39); PA State Representative Ted Harhai (D-58); Chairman of the Municipal Sewage Authority of the Township of Sewickley, William H. Miller, and others for the Township of Sewickley sewer project check presentation. 
   The $15.4 million of federal funding includes an $8,593,000 USDA Rural Development Loan and a $6,901,700 USDA Rural Development Grant. The funding will be used for new sewage collection, conveyance, pumping, and treatment facilities to serve the Rillton, Sunshine, Keystone, Herminie, and Cowansburg areas of Sewickley Township, Westmoreland County. 
   "$15.4 million is an unprecedented amount of funding for Sewickley Township. I am pleased that the USDA recognized the seriousness of the situation in Sewickley Township and prioritized this funding," said Senator Santorum. "USDA Rural Development funding is crucial to keeping Pennsylvania clean and maintaining a safe and healthy environment. As Pennsylvania's first Senator to serve on the Agriculture Committee since 1904, I am continually impressed with the successes of USDA Rural Development throughout the Commonwealth." 
   "We are grateful for the funding that we are receiving from both the federal and state governments," said Mr. Miller. "This funding will enable us to construct a public sewage collection and treatment system that we have been working on for the past 8 years. Once completed, this system will eliminate very serious health hazards that presently exist within Sewickley Township and, hopefully, act as a catalyst for economic development in Sewickley Township." 
   For more information on programs offered by USDA Rural Development, contact the Pennsylvania State Office at (717) 237-2299 or visit its website at www.rurdev.usda.gov/pa.
 
 