SEN. SANTORUM PARTICIPATES IN FORUM WITH NATAN SHARANSKY ON 'RELIGIOUS FREEDOM, DEMOCRACY, AND MIDDLE EAST'
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference and Chairman of the Congressional Working Group on Religious Freedom, today participated in a forum with Natan Sharansky on Religious Freedom, Democracy, and the Middle East. The event was sponsored by the Middle East Forum and moderated by Daniel Pipes, Director of the Middle East Forum.  
   "I am honored to be a part of this unique forum with Minister Sharansky to discuss the relationship between democracy and religious liberty. Minister Sharansky is not only a profound philosopher on the subject of freedom but also is a living witness to the effects of tyrannical governments on those who seek merely to live without fear," said Senator Santorum. "It is important for us to examine and learn about the reasons why our American pluralistic experience is exceptional. We need to protect and defend religious liberty, the first freedom, which is why I established the Congressional Working Group on Religious Freedom." 
   The Congressional Working Group on Religious Freedom, a bicameral group of members of Congress who meet regularly with outside groups representing religious groups from America and around the globe. Throughout his tenure in the United States Senate, Senator Santorum has worked on legislation to promote democracy and religious tolerance both domestically and internationally. 
   Senator Santorum introduced the Workplace Religious Freedom Act in both the 108th and 109th sessions of Congress. The bill has bipartisan support from Senator John Kerry (D-MA) and if passed will require employers to make reasonable accommodations for an employee's religious practice or observance, such as time off and attire. 
   Natan Sharansky is a member of the Likud party delegation to the newly elected session of the Israeli parliament, as well as a former Soviet dissident and renowned human rights activist. Mr. Sharansky was first elected to parliament in 1996 and has served as deputy prime minister, minister of internal affairs, minister of industry and trade, and minister of Jerusalem affairs. He is a distinguished fellow at the Jerusalem-based Shalem Center and the author of Fear No Evil: The Classic Memoir of One Man's Triumph over a Police State (Public Affairs) and The Case for Democracy: The Power of Freedom to Overcome Tyranny and Terror (Public Affairs). 
   The Middle East Forum is an organization whose mission is to define and promote American interests in the Middle East, defining interests to include fighting radical Islam (rather than terrorism), working for Palestinian acceptance of Israel, urging the Bush administration to better manage its democracy efforts, reducing funds going to the Middle East for energy purchases, more robustly asserting U.S. interests vis-?-vis Saudi Arabia, and containing the Iranian threat. The Forum also works to improve Middle East studies in North America.
 
 