SEN. SANTORUM TESTIFIES BEFORE HOUSE WAYS AND MEANS COMMITTEE ON WELFARE REFORM
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today testified before the House Ways and Means Committee at a hearing to review the success of the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996, commonly referred to as the 1996 welfare reform law.  
   "I appreciate the opportunity today to come before the House Ways and Means Committee to discuss what I consider to be the greatest social welfare success in American history," said Senator Santorum. "I am proud to have helped author the first major attempt to improve our welfare system. As a result of this ground-breaking reform, welfare caseloads are down 64 percent, and families relying on welfare have declined 57 percent. The overall poverty rate and the child poverty rate have dropped since the passage of this law. Compared to 1996, 1.4 million fewer children lived in poverty in 2004. The number of adults on welfare who are working has more than doubled since 1996. Moving millions of families from welfare to significant and meaningful work is a great accomplishment of which we should all be immensely proud." 
   Senator Santorum also discussed the Deficit Reduction Act which was signed into law earlier this year. This legislation reauthorized the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) program through 2010, increased the effective share of welfare recipients expected to engage in work or other activities, and provided for a $1 billion increase in mandatory child care funding. Senator Santorum worked to include $100 million annually for healthy marriage promotion, and $50 million annually for the promotion of responsible fatherhood. 
   In his role of Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, Senator Santorum developed the Senate Anti-Poverty Agenda, revolving around Work, Investment and Neighborhoods or WIN. The WIN Anti-Poverty Agenda reflects the proactive anti-poverty agenda of the Senate Republican Conference which embraces the critical role of work, investment, and neighborhood based solutions in the effort to empower families in need, create opportunity, and reduce poverty. It includes twelve specific legislative action items that will serve to reduce poverty. 
   Read Senator Santorum's Testimony at 
  http://waysandmeans.house.gov/hearings.asp?formmode=view&id=5144.
 
 