SEN. SANTORUM VOTES TO SUPPORT AMERICA'S SENIORS, WORKERS AS SENATE IMMIGRATION DEBATE CONTINUES
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, announced his support of several amendments considered by the United States Senate yesterday to S. 2611, the Immigration Reform bill.  
   "This week in the United States Senate my colleagues and I engaged in a meaningful debate on immigration reform and voted on a number of important amendments to the bill. As I have said, I will vote in favor of legislation that secures our borders, reforms our legal immigration system and acknowledges the important contributions legal immigrants make to our country without rewarding illegal behavior. I will also support legislation that improves employment verification and establishes a guest worker program as strictly temporary, never permanent. However, I will not vote for a final bill that provides amnesty," said Senator Santorum. 
   Senator Santorum cosponsored an amendment offered by Senator John Ensign (R-NV) that would ensure illegal immigrants have a valid Social Security Number before they can accumulate credit to qualify for Social Security. This amendment is intended to reduce document fraud, prevent identity theft, and preserve the integrity of the Social Security system, by ensuring that persons who receive an adjustment of status under this bill are not able to receive Social Security benefits as a result of unlawful activity. In other words, this prevents illegal immigrants from getting Social Security benefits based on their illegal work history, often with an invalid number. Unfortunately, the full Senate did not adopt this amendment. 
   Senator Santorum supported an amendment offered by Senator James Inhofe (R-OK) that would require that English be declared the national language of the United States and the default language for government communication. The amendment was accepted by a vote of 63-34. 
   Senator Santorum supported an amendment offered by Senators Jon Kyl (R-AZ) and John Cornyn (R-TX), to prohibit illegal immigrants who have been in the United States less than five years from being eligible for legal permanent residence or citizenship, but rather temporary residence or citizenship. This amendment would change the provision currently included in the Immigration Reform bill, which allows all illegal immigrants who enroll in the temporary worker program to become legal permanent residents and be placed on a pathway to citizenship. As the Senators supporting this amendment said on the floor, this amendment ensures that any temporary worker program is actually temporary. The Senate failed to adopt this amendment.
 
 