SEN. SANTORUM HOLDS CONGRESSIONAL HEARING IN BUCKS COUNTY TO DISCUSS REVERSE MORTGAGES AS RETIREMENT PLANNING TOOL FOR SENIOR HOMEOWNERS
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), a member of the United States Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs and Special Committee on Aging, today hosted a Banking Subcommittee field hearing at the Bristol Township Senior Center to discuss the growing role of federally insured reverse mortgages as a retirement planning tool for homeowners sixty-two years of age and older. Rep. Mike Fitzpatrick (R-8-PA) joined the Senator for the hearing. 
   Last year, Senator Santorum introduced S. 1710, the Reverse Mortgages to Help America's Seniors Act. Representative Fitzpatrick introduced similar legislation in the House of Representatives (H.R. 2892). This legislation would eliminate the current cap on the number of reverse mortgages that can be insured by the Federal Housing Administration (FHA). The bill is designed to guarantee older Americans reliable access to the FHA-insured Home Equity Conversion Mortgage program.  
   Reverse mortgages allow senior homeowners to convert part of their home equity into tax-free income. The homeowner will then receive payment from the lender rather than making monthly payments to the lender as with a regular mortgage. Homeowners may receive the money in one lump sum, fixed monthly payments, a line of credit, or a combination of these. 
   "According to the U.S. Census Bureau, 81% of seniors own their own homes, and 73% of seniors own their homes free and clear of all debt," said Senator Santorum. "This represents nearly $1.9 trillion in untapped home equity, an incredible resource that would help our seniors stay in their homes as long as possible and have access services like home health care, adult daycare, and assisted living. The Reverse Mortgages to Help America's Seniors Act will ensure that more seniors can free up home equity in order to pay for their long-term care and other needs." 
   The following witnesses testified at the hearing - Ms. Margaret Burns, Director of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, Office of Single Family Program Development; Mr. Fred Griesbach, State Director of the Pennsylvania AARP; Mr. Peter Bell, President of the National Reverse Mortgage Lenders Association; Ms. Wendy Whitaker, Partner at Mortgage Mobility; and Ms. Elizabeth Gardner, Consumer. 
   "The reverse mortgage is an important option for older Americans who wish to stay in their community and maintain their economic independence. Passage of this bill increases access to this option and could also help lower the cost of the loans. For this reason AARP fully endorses the legislation," said Mr. Griesbach. 
   Earlier today Senator Santorum was at the National Constitution Center in Philadelphia to participate in a hearing of the U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee, convened by Chairman Arlen Specter (R-PA). The hearing examined campus crime and specifically how schools are complying with the Clery Act, which requires colleges and universities to disclose certain information about campus crime and security policies in a timely manner to prospective and current students and their families. The Clery Act is named in memory of Jeanne Ann Clery, a 19-year-old freshman at Lehigh University who was assaulted and murdered in her dorm room on April 5, 1986. Congress originally enacted the law in 1990. 
   "As a father, I share most parents dreams to have our children attend a college or university to pursue higher education. But, as parents, we want to know that our children will be safe away from home and will be able to pursue their dreams in a secure environment," said Senator Santorum. "I am pleased Senator Specter convened this hearing today to see that colleges and universities are providing accurate and timely statistics about campus crime and security policies to current and prospective students."
 
 