SEN. SANTORUM: WE MUST LOOK FORWARD, FIGHT FOR JOBS
 For the past fourteen years, I have had the great opportunity to work hand-in-hand with both the management and the employees of US Airways. Through these interactions, I have seen parties from both sides of the table move beyond ideological and economic disagreements for the greater purpose of helping the airline meet its financial and customer service goals. However, this past Sunday, I was informed that the negotiations essential for the survival of the airline were met by stalemate and the unfortunate declaration of bankruptcy.  
   My frustration expressed in a recent press conference after hearing this news was not just one of a United States Senator, but of a customer and neighbor as well. I have had the pleasure of meeting many customer service representatives, mechanics, flight attendants, and pilots - all of whom are dedicated to their jobs and make the daily operation of this airline possible. They are the backbone of this airline. Their jobs are my greatest concern, just as their greatest concern is to provide for their families' needs. 
   I realize that my experiences with the airline are just one snapshot in the great history of US Airways. Pennsylvania's economy has been and will be impacted by the number of jobs that are at stake. That is why it has been with pride that I have aggressively promoted and encouraged the expansion of the Pittsburgh US Airways facilities, attempted to restore regional service to Erie, and worked to widen access to the airline both domestically and internationally. 
   It was my great hope that the restructuring of recent years would be enough to rejuvenate the airline that employs nearly 14,000 in Pennsylvania alone and provides service to countless travelers domestically and abroad. However, due to numerous factors, both past and present, US Airways has been forced into filing for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. 
   It has been reported in the media this week that I have been placing sole blame for the bankruptcy filing on the four airline pilots union leaders representing Pittsburgh and Philadelphia. It was not my intention to single out any one party for the current financial crisis of US Airways. In order for US Airways to return to profitability, we must look forward. All parties, both labor and management, need to come to the bargaining table in good faith and negotiate a contract that will help the airline achieve profitability and maintain as many jobs as possible. 
   It is my strong desire that a positive conclusion is reached for all involved, not just for the company, but for the employees with whom I have had the pleasure of meeting and working. I have been in contact with union representatives and US Airways management as they try to negotiate a resolution. As labor and management work together, I remain committed to the employees - as their jobs will remain my greatest concern. 
   Sincerely, 
   Rick Santorum 
  United States Senate
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 