SEN. SANTORUM TOURS KOSHER POULTRY FARM IN MIFFLINTOWN, DELIVERS FUNDING FOR CENTRAL SUSQUEHANNA VALLEY TRANSPORTATION PROJECT ALONG ROUTE 11/15
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today toured Empire Kosher Poultry, Inc. in Juniata County and delivered federal funding for construction of the Central Susquehanna Valley Transportation Project in Snyder County.  
   Senator Santorum toured Empire Kosher and met with Rob Van Naarden, President of Empire Kosher Poultry. Empire Kosher Poultry is the single largest employer in Juniata County and the largest kosher poultry processing plant in the world. As a member of the U.S. Senate Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry Committee, Senator Santorum has particular interest in hearing the concerns of Empire Kosher and other members of the poultry processing industry. 
   "Empire Kosher is honored with the visit of Senator Santorum. His commitment to the businesses and agricultural industry in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania is well known, and we applaud his continued advocacy for the state's economy on the local and national level," said Rob Van Naarden, President and CEO of Empire Kosher. 
   Following his visit to Empire Kosher, Senator Santorum traveled to Shamokin Dam where he delivered federal funding for the construction of the Central Susquehanna Valley Transportation Project in Snyder County. The Senator successfully secured the funding in the Safe, Accountable, Flexible and Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (SAFETEA-LU), a transportation funding bill which reauthorizes federal funding for surface transportation programs through fiscal year 2009. 
   "I am pleased to deliver $5.6 million today for construction of the Central Susquehanna Valley Transportation Project. Routes 11 and 15 merge in Shamokin Dam to connect communities along the West Branch and the Susquehanna Rivers with the greater capital region in Harrisburg; currently this major artery experiences serious traffic congestion because of the many stop lights and local traffic on Route 11/15. The proposed byway project should significantly alleviate traffic delays and increase traffic flow through the greater Susquehanna Valley region," said Senator Santorum. 
   In addition to the $5.6 million Senator Santorum was able to provide, U.S. Representative Don Sherwood (R-PA-10) secured $4.8 million of federal funding in the U.S. House of Representatives for this project. This brings total federal funding to $10.4 million. 
   President Bush recently signed the SAFETEA-LU bill, which also provides a federal funding formula on which states receive a return on money paid in federal gasoline taxes. 
   "Through my leadership position as Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, I fought to keep Pennsylvania a donee state under the bill's formula, which means the Commonwealth will receive more from the Highway Trust Fund than it contributes," said Senator Santorum. "The previous version of the bill, considered in the 108th Congress, made Pennsylvania a donor state with a rate of return of $.97 for every dollar it paid into the fund. The SAFETEA-LU bill I helped to pass ensures our state will never receive less than $1.13 for every dollar contributed."
   Contact: Robert Trayham, 202/224-0610.
 
 