CLEARING THE WAY FOR ECONOMIC GROWTH IN PENNSYLVANIA
  Recently, Pennsylvania received encouraging news that its economy is beginning to show signs of steady growth. The Pennsylvania Department of Labor and Industry reported that Pennsylvania's unemployment rate for February stood at 5.2 percent--below the national average for February--and professional and business services jobs were added. Many Pennsylvanian communities suffered disproportionately from the recession that began in 2001 but have since begun to experience job gains and decreases in unemployment rates.  
   Much of Pennsylvania's economic growth can be attributed to federal legislation that reduced the tax burden on families and businesses, and also improved the business climate for companies to expand and hire new employees. As Pennsylvania's economy continues to move forward, it is essential that Congress not only continue to pass legislation that creates jobs, but that retains them as well. There are several specific steps that Congress can take to help states like Pennsylvania who are rebounding from a lagging economy to enjoy positive growth. 
   There exist several unnecessary strains on our national economy that affect the economies of states like Pennsylvania. Clearly the asbestos litigation crisis needs to be dealt with to protect the individuals who are genuinely sick, as well as to address its destructive impact on American jobs and competitiveness. The explosion of asbestos-related litigation is bankrupting scores of companies and destroying jobs while failing to provide proper compensation to those actually injured by asbestos exposure. It is my hope that Congress will reach some sort of agreement that ensures those who are truly sick due to asbestos receive fair compensation, but not at the expense of the federal taxpayer. Relying on the taxpayer to bail out private industry for the asbestos litigation crisis would be devastating to our economy. 
   Recently, President George W. Bush signed into law the Class Action Fairness Act. This legislation that I supported eliminates much of the present abuse of our class action system that has resulted in unprecedented costs to the national economy. The number of class actions filed in the past ten years has risen at an alarming rate. Federal class action filings have grown by 300 percent and state filings have grown by 1,000 percent. The economic impact of this increase is staggering. A Tillinghast study has shown that class actions cost our economy $205.4 billion in 2001, which translates to 2.4 percent of our Gross Domestic Product (GDP). This cost is equivalent to a 5 percent tax on the wages of every American. The Class Action Fairness law is one step in removing the excessive burden of class action lawsuits on job creation. 
   As the needs of our economy and our workforce are changing, we must promote high quality education. America's growing economy requires a flexible, highly skilled workforce. In the current program year, the Department of Labor anticipates providing job training and/or employment services to more than 900,000 unemployed workers to help them get back to work. Adults, especially low-and middle-income Pennsylvanians must be able to access the training necessary to close the skills gap. States should also be given more flexibility to fill high-growth jobs with skilled American workers. 
   In today's economy, a quality education is more important than ever to allow American workers to compete with the rest of the world. Higher education should be accessible, affordable, and within reach of all those interested. We also must hold our schools accountable to ensure that college courses are relevant, improve retention and completion rates, and prepare our next generation for the workforce. 
   Tax relief plays a vital role in fostering growth in our economy. By making permanent the current individual income tax rates, the lower tax rate on most dividends, the reduced long-term capital gains tax rate, and by permanently repealing the death tax, individuals will be encouraged to work, save, and invest. Furthermore, these tax cuts reduce the cost of capital for Pennsylvania businesses, enabling them to invest in new equipment and create more jobs. Tax relief also stimulates economic recovery and creates an atmosphere of opportunity and personal ownership for hard working Pennsylvania families. 
   It is extremely important to me, in my role as your United States Senator, that I do all I can to enact policies and support initiatives that will help Pennsylvania create and maintain jobs. As I travel to all 67 Pennsylvania counties annually, I enjoy meeting residents and businesses to discuss federal legislation that will help local companies and communities in Pennsylvania acquire the capability to expand and grow. Congress has the opportunity in the coming year to improve the quality of life for all Americans while putting our economy on a clear path to continued economic growth.
   Contact: Elizabeth Chapman, 202/224-0610. 
 
 