SEN. SANTORUM APPLAUDS APPROVAL OF SITE FOR NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AFRICAN-AMERICAN HISTORY AND CULTURE
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today applauded the Smithsonian Board of Regents for approving the Monument site for construction of the National Museum of African-American History and Culture. The Monument site selected is located on Madison Drive between 14th and 15th Streets, Northwest.  
   "This is a significant step forward in making this museum a reality which is something that I have been pushing for the past six years. I am pleased this site was chosen because the museum will have a central location on the National Mall -only a short walk from the White House and the Washington Monument, which will make it easily accessible to visitors traveling to our Nation's capitol to experience the rich history of our country which finally will include the story of African Americans," said Senator Santorum. 
   Senator Santorum was an original cosponsor of the National Museum of African American History and Culture bill, which established the creation of the Museum and was signed by President Bush on December 16, 2003. 
   "All Americans will soon be able to gain an even deeper understanding of the traditions and customs of previous generations of African Americans at the National Museum of African American History and Culture," said Senator Santorum. "I believe that a greater knowledge of the African American story will help lead us to a greater understanding of ourselves as a nation." 
   The Smithsonian Board of Regents is the oversight body of the Smithsonian and was established in 1846 by an Act of Congress. The Smithsonian is dedicated to increasing the nation's understanding of its history and heritage, and to promoting innovation, research and discovery in science. The Smithsonian currently has 16 museums, 129 affiliated museums, and seven research centers. The site must now be approved by a number of planning agencies.
 
 