SEN. SANTORUM ANNOUNCES $79 MILLION IN FUNDING FOR HOMELESS PENNSYLVANIANS
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, announced $78,901,946 in federal funding for 188 programs throughout Pennsylvania to provide shelter and supportive services for persons and families without a home of their own. The funding was awarded by the Office of Housing and Urban Development's (HUD) Continuum of Care Homeless Assistance Programs and is part of more than $1.4 billion announced nationwide - the largest single commitment of federal funds supporting an unprecedented number of local projects.  
   "Far too many Pennsylvanians are suffering from homelessness in Pennsylvania," Senator Santorum said. "I appreciate HUD and the President's willingness to assist these important programs throughout the Commonwealth that provide needed services to homeless individuals and families. We must all work together to ensure the well-being and safety of those who are suffering. It is important to educate people about affordable housing opportunities and job training as well as to provide counseling and assistance to help them to become more self-sufficient." 
   "President Bush is deeply committed to supporting our most vulnerable neighbors and today I am pleased to reconfirm that commitment," said Housing and Urban Development Secretary Alphonso Jackson. "This unprecedented level of funds will go directly to those on the front lines, who work tirelessly everyday to bring an end to chronic homelessness, and who provide services to the many individuals and families without a home of their own." 
   These programs, including the Supportive Housing Program and the Shelter Plus Care program, are part of a larger federal strategy to end long-term or chronic homelessness. 
   HUD's funding is provided in two ways: 
   * Continuum of Care grants provide permanent and transitional housing to homeless persons. In addition, Continuum grants fund important services including job training, health care, mental health counseling, substance abuse treatment and child care. 
   * Emergency Shelter Grants provide homeless persons with basic shelter and essential social services, as well as providing short-term homeless prevention assistance for those in imminent risk of losing their housing. 
   Combined, HUD's Continuum of Care and Emergency Shelter Grant programs will provide critically needed funding to programs throughout the Keystone State. As a result, more than 250,000 Pennsylvanians will receive the housing and services they need to become self-sufficient. 
   For a more detailed local summary of the funding announced today, visit http://www.hud.gov/offices/cpd/homeless/budget/2004/pa/totals.xls.
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 