SEN. SANTORUM PRAISES BUSH'S COMMITMENT TO AFRICA, URGES SENATE TO PASS BIPARTISAN LEGISLATION ELIMINATING DEBT OF POOR NATIONS
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, offered comments today urging the Senate to quickly pass legislation to relieve the debt burden facing Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPCs).  
   "I commend President Bush who announced a new effort to battle the extreme poverty that the world's poorest nations are unable to overcome due to harsh financial circumstances. 
   "Earlier this week, I was proud to join Senators DeWine and Biden to introduce bipartisan legislation authorizing necessary funding to meet the commitment of relieving 100% of the debt burden facing HIPCs. I urge my colleagues to rise to the occasion in joining me in a bipartisan fashion to swiftly pass this legislation to permit many of the world's poorest countries to devote their resources towards development, education, health care, and infrastructure-instead of transferring their critical financial resources to multilateral institutions in the form of debt service payments. 
   "Additionally, President Bush announced $400 million for the continuation of the Africa Education Initiative (AEI) over four years to improve the quality and accessibility of basic education for millions of children in sub-Saharan Africa. The President called on Congress to provide $55 million over three years to promote women's justice and empowerment in Africa. The President also discussed the effort to reduce malaria mortality in African countries and to save hundreds of thousands of lives which are lost each year as a result of malaria. 
   "No other President has done more to alleviate the unimaginable struggles and hardships facing the African continent as President Bush. Under the President's leadership, the United States has tripled development aid to Africa. I join with the President and share in his vision to work towards enabling African people to live better lives and eventually overcome the need for aid. In the words of the President, 'true compassion is measured by real improvements in the lives of men, women and children. And that is the goal and that is the focus of American policy.'" 
   Earlier this year, Senator Santorum introduced an amendment to the Senate-passed FY06 Budget Resolution to fully fund President Bush's fiscal year 2006 Budget Request for bilateral HIV/AIDS programs, and to provide an additional $500 million in multilateral funding for the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria.
   Contact: Robert Traynham, 202/224-0610.
 
 