SEN. SANTORUM IN HARRISBURG DEMANDS RELIEF FOR PENNSYLVANIANS FROM RISING GAS PRICES
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Energy Working Group, today was at Sheetz Gas Station on Paxton Street in Harrisburg to discuss relief for Pennsylvanians from rising gas prices.  
   "I have worked with my colleagues in the U.S. Senate to provide immediate relief in the way of a $100 gas tax rebate, which would offset the average annual federal gas tax paid by consumers at the pump," said Senator Santorum. "Pennsylvanians pay the third-highest gas tax in the nation at 31.1 cents on each gallon of gas purchased. I am hopeful that we will also see relief from the state, and I encourage Governor Rendell and the state legislature to consider a repeal of the state gas tax or a similar rebate for drivers." 
   Yesterday, Senator Santorum and his colleagues in the U.S. Senate leadership unveiled the Gas Price Relief and Rebate Act of 2006. This bill would provide consumer anti-price gouging protections, a federal Gas Tax Holiday rebate for consumers, tax incentives to promote the purchase of hybrid automobiles, and incentives to increase our nation's oil refining capacity. 
   "We are going to be watching very closely for price gouging at the pumps. I am also encouraging my colleagues to support legislation I have introduced which would institute our nation's first federal gas price gouging statute, the Gasoline Affordability and Security (GAS) Act," said Senator Santorum. 
   Senator Santorum supports providing a "Gas Tax Holiday" that temporarily suspends the Federal Gas Tax and offsets those revenues to the Highway Trust Fund with the repeal of tax cuts provided to the oil and gas industry. Senator Santorum has also been focused on other solutions to rising gas prices; he has been championing of the nation's first coal-to-liquid fuel plant, which will be located in Pennsylvania. This proven technology has the potential to significantly reduce our nation's dangerous and costly dependence on foreign oil. Senator Santorum believes this funding will allow Pennsylvania to be a leader in this promising technology that is both environmentally friendly and strengthens our local economies, because of abundant coal resources in the Commonwealth. 
   Senator Santorum also supported the Energy Policy Act (P.L. 109-58), which provided numerous provisions to utilize biofuels and ethanol, as well as provide additional incentives for the utilization of hybrid automobiles.
 
 