'RELIEF FOR HARD WORKING FAMILIES'
  By Sen. Rick Santorum
   Last week, Congress took another step to stimulate the economy and put money back into the hands of those who deserve it. By extending tax relief enacted in 2001 and 2003 for another five years hard working middle class Pennsylvania families will now have more control over their money instead of facing automatic tax hikes on New Years Day.  
   As the father of six children, I know that raising a family can be a struggle. The last thing working families need is less money in their hands. Families, not the government should decide how to spend their hard-earned money. 
   That is why Congress extended the $1,000 child tax credit. Mothers and fathers should be able to spend that money closer to home. This could mean buying a better health insurance program, getting better education for your children, or allowing you to spend more time with your sons and daughters instead of having to work two jobs or an extra shift. 
   Our tax system should not penalize married couples; instead the federal government should strive to develop ways to reward individuals entering into the institution of marriage. Marriage is an institution that should be encouraged and supported in our society. 
   Therefore, Congress extended marriage penalty relief by providing that the basic standard deduction amount for married couples filing jointly is twice the basic standard deduction amount for single individuals. 
   As our economy grows and strengthens, our hard working middle class families should not be punished with a tax increase. If Congress did not extend the expanded 10 percent tax bracket last week, 94 million Americans including Pennsylvania families would have seen an increase in their taxes starting this year. As a result of the tax extension, more people will enjoy paying a lower percentage of taxes, providing relief and stability to our hard working families. 
   Our nation has always believed that it is better for people to work than be on welfare. We have encouraged people to work, to have personal freedom over their finances, and move up the economic ladder. 
   Because of this, I introduced the Work Opportunity Tax Credit and the Welfare-to-Work Tax Credit, which were included in recent tax relief extensions passed in the Senate. The two tax credits provide incentives to employers to hire individuals who have difficulty finding work during good and bad economic times. The tax credits are both a hiring incentive and a retention incentive-offering some of the higher costs of recruiting and hiring and providing a higher reward for those who stay longer on the job. 
   Because Republicans in Congress have followed President Bush's leadership, families with children, married couples, and low-income Americans in the ten percent tax bracket will not see an increase in their taxes this year, and in fact, 6.8 million low-income families will experience an increase in their tax refunds in 2005. The recent extensions alone are expected to save Americans more than $106.7 billion through 2010. 
   Tax relief has played a key role in fostering growth in our economy. More jobs are being created and the unemployment rate is low. In fact, at 5.4 percent the unemployment rate is below the average rate of the 1970s, 1980s, and 1990s. In August alone, 144,000 jobs were created nationwide, bringing the total to over 1.7 million new jobs created since August 2003. The manufacturing sector, which is vital to Pennsylvania's economy, added 22,000 new payroll jobs in August bringing the total to 107,000 new manufacturing payroll jobs created since January. 
   I am pleased that Congress has extended the expiring tax provisions - tax relief that has stimulated economic recovery and created an atmosphere of opportunity and personal ownership for hard working Pennsylvania families.
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 