SEN. SANTORUM TOURS NEW TECHNOLOGY TRAINING FACILITY IN MEADVILLE; DISCUSSES HIS NEW LONG-TERM CARE LEGISLATION IN ERIE
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today in Meadville toured the newly completed technology training facility in Bessemer Commerce Park. The construction and renovation of the building was a collaborative effort between Precision Manufacturing Institute (PMI) and Edinboro University of Pennsylvania. 
   "I am glad to see the progress made on the new facility here in Meadville. I secured a $450,000 earmark for this technology training facility because there is a need to provide individuals with technical education and training in addition to an academic background," said Senator Santorum. 
   "Thanks to the support of Senator Santorum, we now have a modern, state-of-the-art facility in Meadville that will provide vital educational opportunities for Crawford County for years to come. Without the nearly half-million dollar earmark, Edinboro University in Meadville would likely not be here today," said Dr. Frank Pogue, President of Edinboro University of Pennsylvania.
   Senator Santorum was then in Erie at the Erie Center on Health and Aging to discuss federal legislation he recently introduced to encourage care giving and long-term care planning for Pennsylvania seniors. If passed by Congress, the Aging with Respect and Dignity Act (S. 2281) would assist caregivers who are providing for their loved-ones. Also, S.2281 encourages financial planning so more Pennsylvanians have options in choosing the best possible long-term care that matches their needs.
   "Most Americans are not planning for, and are not prepared for, the financial impact of long-term care for themselves and their loved-ones. Individuals in need of long-term care - seniors and those with illness and disabilities - should have the opportunity to age with respect and dignity - receiving services of their choice, in the setting of their choice," said Senator Santorum. "If more middle-class Americans plan and save for their long-term care needs, an added benefit will be that the significant financial pressures will be lessened on safety-net programs such as Medicaid - helping us preserve and strengthen these programs for those in need."
   Last year, Senator Santorum traveled throughout the Commonwealth listening to the concerns and suggestions of his fellow Pennsylvanians as he worked to develop long-term care legislation. The Senator met with Pennsylvanians who are providing care for their family members, long-term care providers, nursing home administrators, doctors, nurses, and Area Agencies on Aging administrators.
   "I am glad that I had the opportunity to discuss long-term care with my fellow Pennsylvanians - this legislation was developed based on what I heard across the Commonwealth," said Senator Santorum. "I've heard from sons and daughters who are trying to find the best care for their aging parents. I've heard from those in the long-term care industry who expressed a need to raise standards. I've also heard from countless Pennsylvanians who need more options in planning for their long-term care needs. I am proud to author the Aging with Respect and Dignity Act - which I believe will help solve these problems."
   Pennsylvania has one of the largest senior populations in the nation, and the number of Pennsylvanians age 85 and older is projected to increase by thirty-eight percent between 2000 and 2015. Long-term care can range from basic help with chores and activities in the home, assistance with activities of daily living in an assisted living facility, or highly skilled care in a nursing facility.
 
 