SEN. SANTORUM PRESENTS FEDERAL FUNDING TO ERIE COUNTY REGIONAL TRAINING INSTITUTE, DISCUSSES STAFF EXPANSION AT SAINT VINCENT HEALTH SYSTEMS
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today delivered federal funding to the Erie County Regional Training Institute. The funding is from the Fiscal Year 2006 Commerce, Justice and Science (CJS) Appropriations bill and will be used for equipment and technology improvements for the training of public safety professionals.  
   "I am pleased to deliver $350,000 to the Erie County Regional Training Institute. Senator Specter and I have worked hard to secure funding for Pennsylvania that will provide equipment and training for our public safety officials and first responders," said Senator Santorum. "It is essential that we do everything within our power to ensure the safety of every Pennsylvanian." 
   The Regional Training Institute, in collaboration with the Protective Services Institute of Mercyhurst College, will provide critical training to police and fire professionals, as well as first responders, throughout Erie County and surrounding counties. The Center will also serve as a prototype hub for emergency training and research. Senator Arlen Specter (R-PA) also helped to secure this funding. 
   Senator Santorum was also at Saint Vincent Health Systems (SVHS) today to discuss their efforts and the need to increase the number of graduate medical residencies in urology, emergency medicine, and internship training at their facility. Senator Santorum wrote to officials at the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services expressing support and urging them to approve the expansion of residency positions at SVHS. 
   "Saint Vincent Health System asked me to assist as they requested approval for additional residency positions in urology, emergency medicine and internship training at their facility. Saint Vincent is a quality primary care provider in northwestern Pennsylvania and if there is a need for additional physician services, then we certainly should do whatever we can to make sure they receive adequate support. I am pleased that CMS appropriately responded to my inquiries and approved additional residency positions for Saint Vincent," said Senator Santorum. 
   "I would like to thank Senator Santorum, Representative English and Senator Specter as well as our collaborators at the Lake Erie Consortium of Osteopathic Medical Training, for their support in helping us gain approval for these resident positions," said Angela Bontempo, President and CEO of Saint Vincent Health Systems. "The addition of these residency positions also helps to meet a vital issue in the region...a need the entire nation shares with us...which is a shortfall in the number of board-certified Emergency Medicine physicians. A recent survey showed that there were over 30 percent more positions than the number of Emergency Medicine physicians to fill them. We recognized that need and sought to fill it by applying for and receiving twelve Emergency Medicine residents. Many of these residents will choose to stay in the northwest Pennsylvania region, giving the area an enormous leg-up in avoiding future shortages."
 
 