SEN. SANTORUM PRAISES PASSAGE OF SCHOOLS SAFE ACT
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today praised passage of his Schools Safely Acquiring Faculty Excellence (SAFE) Act. Sen. Santorum sponsored this bill, which was included as part of the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006. The Schools SAFE Act will allow states to choose to conduct FBI background checks on individuals who would be working with or around children in schools.  
   "By allowing schools to access national criminal information databases at the request of the state, the Schools SAFE Act will empower schools across our nation with an essential resource when considering whether or not to hire an individual that would be working in our nation's classrooms," said Senator Santorum. "This common sense opportunity will provide schools with the tools they need to ensure that the faculty they hire can be entrusted with our children. The Schools SAFE Act will give parents across our nation the peace of mind of knowing that the individuals working with their children on a daily basis are fit to do so." 
   Currently, in Pennsylvania an FBI background check is only required for individuals applying to work in schools who have lived in Pennsylvania for less than two years, while applicants that are long-time residents of the Commonwealth are required to undergo only a state background check, which excludes crimes committed outside of Pennsylvania. Beginning in April 2007, applicants who have lived in the Commonwealth for more than two years will be required to undergo FBI background checks. Although some states do participate in a program in which background information is voluntarily shared, efforts to conduct thorough background checks have often met troubling barriers that have prevented schools from accessing complete information. The Schools SAFE Act will ensure that schools have access to the information they need to make informed hiring decisions that will protect our nation's students from those who would seek to harm them. 
   "As a parent, I understand the importance of keeping our children safe. By including the Schools SAFE Act in this important legislation, my colleagues and I are taking critical steps to ensure the safety of America's children, both in our nation's classrooms and beyond," said Senator Santorum.
 
 