SEN. SANTORUM ANNOUNCES SENATE PASSAGE OF GLOBAL FUND TO FIGHT AIDS, TUBERCULOSIS, MALARIA
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, announced that the Senate adopted a bipartisan amendment appropriating an additional $100 million for the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. Sens. Santorum and Richard Durbin (D-IL) introduced the amendment in the Senate earlier this year.  
   "I thank my Senate colleagues who unanimously adopted this amendment," commented Senator Santorum. "These funds will allow the United States to meet its commitment to provide one-third of the Global Fund revenue for fiscal year 2006. I also want to thank Senator Durbin who worked very hard on crafting this amendment." 
   According to current estimates, the Global Fund requires a total of $1.8 billion in 2006 to extend its existing programs to the second term of their grants. Without the funds provided by this amendment, the Global Fund might be forced to cancel programs which have demonstrated success in fighting AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria. 
   "The Global Fund has been an essential component in America's effort to combat the AIDS pandemic," noted Senator Santorum. "Together with bilateral U.S. assistance provided through the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief, the Global Fund provides life-saving and life-sustaining assistance to people infected with the disease or who are at risk to contract it." 
   Under the Santorum-Durbin amendment, this additional $100 million is added to the $250 million provided for the Global Fund in the Child Survival Health Program Fund account. When combined with the $150 million in the Global HIV/AIDS Initiative account in this bill, and with $100 million that may be included in the Labor, Health and Human Services, Education appropriations bill, this will bring the collective U.S. contribution to the Global Fund for fiscal year 2006 to $600 million, the minimum needed to allow the Global Fund to renew existing grants.
   Contact: Robert Traynham, 202/224-0610.
 
 