SEN. SANTORUM DELIVERS KEYNOTE ADDRESS TO PENNSYLVANIA STATE ASSOCIATION OF BOROUGHS SPRING LEGISLATIVE CONFERENCE
  Sen Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today gave the keynote address at the Pennsylvania State Association of Boroughs (PSAB) Spring Legislative Conference. Sen. Santorum has worked for Pennsylvania communities by fighting against proposed cuts in Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) funding which is critical to fighting poverty and spurring economic growth. 
   "I have a solid record on supporting efforts to maintain and increase CDBG funding because as local officials and community leaders, you have a solid record of using this funding for projects that are critical to making Pennsylvania communities a better place for families to live, work, and grow," said Senator Santorum.
   In Fiscal Year 2006, with Senator Santorum's assistance, Pennsylvania received $50.081 million in CDBG funding, providing many cities through the Commonwealth with the ability to pursue significant economic revitalization projects and provide affordable housing to low- and moderate- income Pennsylvanians.
   Recently, Senator Santorum offered an amendment to the Fiscal Year 2007 Budget Resolution, which aims to increase funding for the CDBG program by $1.3 billion, bringing the total CDBG funding included in the budget to $4.3 billion. The Senate passed the amendment March 15, 2006 by a bipartisan vote of 60-38.
   "We are pleased to have Senator Santorum attend our Spring Legislative Conference to discuss some of the issues associated with improving the quality of life for borough communities with member delegates. Our core borough communities utilize federal programs to assist in sustaining economic viability, so it is imperative that there is an exchange of ideas between Senator Santorum and the borough officials who honorably serve 960 boroughs and 2.5 million residents," said PSAB President Thomas R. Stanton.
   Since being elected to the United States Senate in 1994, Senator Santorum has traveled to each of Pennsylvania's sixty-seven counties every year. Throughout the past year the Senator has focused much of his time in Pennsylvania discussing the CDBG program, long-term care, the new Medicare Prescription Drug Coverage, the Social Security Guarantee Act, and the Safe, Accountable, Flexible and Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (SAFETEA-LU).
   "It is an honor for me to represent our state in the United States Senate. I enjoy traveling to all sixty-seven counties each year and to listen to the concerns of my constituents and take them back to Washington, DC," said Senator Santorum. "CDBG and the SAFETEA-LU bill have been crucial to the continued economic growth and development of our communities and counties. Through my leadership position in the Senate, I have worked hard with my colleague, Arlen Specter, in the Senate and my colleagues in the House of Representatives to make sure that Pennsylvania's voice is heard and represented."
 
 