SEN. SANTORUM MEETS WITH EMPLOYEES AT ALLEGHENY ENERGY IN GREENSBURG
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today met with about 100 employees at Allegheny Energy, Inc. The Senator discussed the Energy Bill and gave a federal legislative update. 
   Last year, Senator Santorum supported the Energy Policy Act, which seeks to maintain a balance between traditional and alternative fuels, energy conservation and efficiency, as well as research and development. Additionally, the Energy Policy Act of 2005 promotes several key initiatives that will lead our nation toward greater energy independence while establishing energy conservation standards and emphasizing alternative sources of power such as nuclear, clean coal, and hydrogen. Among the programs authorized is the Clean Coal Power Initiative, which would provide $200 million annually to be applied to clean coal research in coal gasification and other combustion technologies.
   "I am encouraged to see a business move their headquarters to southwestern Pennsylvania and create more jobs for Pennsylvanians. I know Allegheny Energy has had a long road to travel to get where they are today and I am proud to learn that Allegheny Energy has spent more than $2 billion on environmental control technology since the inception of the Clean Air Act and is expected to spend $750 million on additional emissions control technology," said Senator Santorum.
   In 2004 Allegheny Energy moved their headquarters to Pennsylvania from Maryland, bringing jobs to Westmoreland County. Allegheny Energy currently employs more than 2,000 in Pennsylvania alone. Allegheny Energy recently signed a contract agreement with the Utility Workers Union of America (UWUA) System Local 102, which included the hiring of a minimum of 130 new employees company-wide.
   "It is an honor to host Senator Santorum here in Greensburg. His visit demonstrates the importance of Western Pennsylvania and Allegheny Energy to the nation's energy infrastructure," said Paul J. Evanson, chairman, president and chief executive officer of Allegheny Energy.
 
 