CHANGING THE FACE OF HEALTH CARE
  There is a new trend sweeping the nation-Health Savings Accounts (HSAs). More than a million people are now receiving health coverage through HSA-eligible health insurance plans-twice as many as six months ago. Also, the number of companies offering HSA-eligible plans to employees has tripled in the last six months from twenty-nine in September 2004 to ninety-nine today. HSAs are a lifeline for the many Pennsylvanians who previously had difficulty obtaining health insurance.  
   In 2003, the Senate passed legislation that abolished the previous restrictions on Medical Savings Accounts, renaming them HSAs, allowing more individuals to benefit from these important health accounts, which give people much more flexibility and empower consumers to make smarter choices with their healthcare dollars. 
   There are many advantages to HSAs. They allow you to save the money in your account for future medical expenses and give you a stake in how their healthcare dollars are spent. HSAs allow more freedom, choice, and reward personal responsibility for smart healthcare decisions. If an individual lives a healthy lifestyle, takes advantage of preventive care, and does not ignore health-warning signs until significant hospitalization or surgery is necessary, the HSA continues to grow tax-free, as a nest egg for the future. 
   And HSAs are not just for the young, healthy, and wealthy. eHealthInsurance and Assurant found this year that more than 1/3 of their applicants were previously uninsured, and 2/3 were over 40. eHealthInsurance also stated that nearly one-half of their purchasers have family incomes of less than $50,000, and Assurant has stated that 27 percent of their purchasers have a net worth of less than $25,000. 
   So how do HSAs work? HSAs are the property of individual Americans and follow them from employer to employer and into retirement. HSA funds are deposited tax-free, grow tax-free, and are withdrawn tax-free as long as they are used on qualified medical expenses such as prescriptions and over-the-counter drugs, long-term care services, and visits to primary care and specialist physicians. At the time of one's death, HSA ownership can be transferred to the deceased's spouse on a tax-free basis. 
   HSAs have become the means for many Pennsylvanians, particularly families and small businesses, to access health coverage, and it is necessary to expand the use of this already attractive healthcare option. With that in mind, I recently introduced legislation that builds upon the success of HSAs by making health insurance even more affordable for those who need it most by creating refundable tax credits that can be used to purchase traditional insurance or HSAs. This healthcare tax legislation addresses a long-standing barrier to affordable health insurance by eliminating the unfair tax bias against individuals who purchase their own healthcare coverage. Additionally, this healthcare tax legislation will provide a tax credit to small businesses who contribute money to an employee's HSA, and an above-the-line deduction for high-deductible health plans. 
   HSAs have proven to be a legitimate way to help the uninsured. The HSA Coalition estimates that 37 percent of their applicants were previously uninsured. According to the Galen Institute, HSAs have the potential to help 1.8 to 4.4 million Americans gain health insurance. 
   As more and more Pennsylvanians look to HSAs as an affordable option for health coverage, I will continue to work hard to pass legislation that lowers the cost of health coverage for all Pennsylvanians. As the son of a psychologist and a nurse, and the husband of a nurse, I can personally say that government run health care is not the answer to what ails our healthcare system. The federal government should facilitate competition that allows all patients to benefit through tax incentives, competitive grants, and educating consumers and patients about their healthcare options. The role of government should be to help create the atmosphere in which a healthcare system can thrive and bring stability to America's medical expenditures. HSAs are an important part of achieving this goal, and they provide access to quality and affordable health care for many Pennsylvanians. And with the incentives provided in my recent healthcare tax legislation, more and more uninsured, low-income individuals and small businesses that have traditionally struggled to afford quality health care will find rest and peace in HSAs.
 
 