SEN. SANTORUM PRAISES PASSAGE OF INDIVIDUALS WITH DISABILITIES EDUCATION ACT OF 2004
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today issued the following statement in support of passage of the conference report to accompanying H.R. 1350, the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act of 2004 (IDEA):  
   "I am pleased that the Senate has passed the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act of 2004. This critical, bipartisan legislation provides a framework to unite parents, teachers, and schools in achieving the shared goal of a quality, results-based education for children with disabilities. 
   "Currently there are 6.8 million children and youth with disabilities. The passage of IDEA before the adjournment of the 108th Congress is critical to encouraging educational excellence and aligning IDEA with educational reforms under the No Child Left Behind Act. The reauthorization of IDEA helps teachers, schools, and parents provide a better education for all students with disabilities, so that no child is left behind. 
   "Included in the IDEA legislation is an amendment I introduced that reduces the paperwork burden on special education teachers. Specifically, the amendment authorizes the Secretary of Education to grant waivers of IDEA statutory or regulatory requirements in up to 15 states to reduce excessive paperwork and non-instructional time burdens, without inhibiting the right of a child with a disability to receive a free appropriate public education. 
   "Reducing paperwork burdens associated with IDEA requirements increases the time and resources available for instruction and other activities aimed at improving results for children with disabilities. My amendment alleviates a serious problem that causes frustration and discouragement among dedicated special education teachers who expend energy and countless hours in order to give students with disabilities an equal opportunity to learn."
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 