SEN. SANTORUM ANNOUNCES FEDERAL FUNDING FOR BIOTECHNOLOGY WORKFORCE TRAINING
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, announced today that U.S. Labor Secretary Elaine L. Chao has included southeastern Pennsylvania in a series of investments totaling more than $105 million to address the workforce needs of the biotechnology manufacturing industry. The greater Philadelphia region's growing biomanufacturing and life sciences industry can expect $1.5 million in workforce development funding.  
   Through regional community colleges, this project will build pipelines for workers in the specialized life sciences. The first step involves changing the way industry and education relate to one another, through the work of the Biotechnology Human Capital Investment Project (Biotech Project). The Biotech Project established the framework to support the biotechnology sector workforce needs. The project now will expand geographically and further integrate education and industry by creating programs for cooperative learning experiences, industry-validated skill-based certificates, and an integrated learning process that delivers a well-educated, highly trained skilled workforce resulting in enhanced career opportunities. 
   "The biotech industry is an integral component of the economic growth and development of southeast Pennsylvania," said Senator Santorum. "I am pleased that the Administration has provided funding to ensure that Pennsylvanians have the necessary skills to compete for employment in the high-growth biotechnology job sector. This funding could not come at a better time in terms of equipping Pennsylvanians with the critical funding that is needed to ensure that our workforce remains globally competitive." 
   The Pennsylvania Workforce Investment Board (PWIB) has been awarded the grant and will play an oversight role and serve as the clearinghouse for documenting the overall impact of the initiative. The PWIB will work in partnership with the Collegiate Consortium for Workforce and Economic Development, Delaware BioScience Association, Delaware Economic Development Office, Delaware Valley Industrial Resource Center, Innovation Philadelphia, Life Science Career Alliance, Pennsylvania Bio, Pennsylvania Department of Labor and Industry, and Select Greater Philadelphia. 
   This funding is part of the Department of Labor's High-Growth Job Training Initiative, designed to ensure that worker training and career development resources in the public workforce system are targeted by helping workers gain the skills and competencies they need to obtain jobs and build successful careers in these industries.
 
 