SEN. SANTORUM MAKES SIGNIFICANT ANNOUNCEMENT REGARDING MEDICARE REIMBURSEMENT FOR NORTHEASTERN PENNSYLVANIA HOSPITALS
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA) today was joined by his colleague on the Senate Finance Committee, Chairman Chuck Grassley (R-IA), at Wilkes-Barre General Hospital to reiterate their commitment to resolve the low Medicare reimbursements that have plagued our hospitals in northeastern Pennsylvania. Sen. Santorum is a member of the Senate Finance Committee, which is the committee that has jurisdiction over Medicare and the ability to remedy this issue for Pennsylvania.  
   Senator Santorum has been working on fair and equitable Medicare reimbursement for hospitals in northeastern Pennsylvania for many years. Senator Santorum made the case for Pennsylvania hospitals to his colleagues on the Senate Finance Committee and was able to secure a commitment from Chairman Grassley to make comprehensive overhaul of the reimbursement system that negatively affects northeastern Pennsylvania hospitals and other hospitals across Pennsylvania, a top priority in the committee. Senator Santorum was also able to secure a temporary extension of funding for the hospitals, while a more long-term solution is worked on. 
   "Pennsylvania hospitals are financially disadvantaged by the current Medicare reimbursement policy, which threatens access for all Pennsylvanians, and quality jobs," said Senator Santorum. "One of my top priorities is working on comprehensive broad-based reform so that Pennsylvania hospitals are compensated appropriately and fairly. I want to thank Chairman Grassley for acknowledging the situation in my state and making reform a committee priority." 
   Without Section 508 Medicare funding, northeastern Pennsylvania hospitals stand to lose more than $34 million annually. Without this extension, the affected hospitals in Pennsylvania will have negative margins in 2007 (negative 4.2 percent overall), with margins ranging from negative 2.81 percent to negative 16.84 percent for individual hospitals. 
   "Senator Santorum's perseverance in highlighting the need to prevent an unfair result in the calculation of Medicare hospital payments has made this a front burner issue in Washington. He's a strong voice for hospitals in Pennsylvania and across the country," Senator Grassley said. 
   The hospitals represented today serve approximately 165,000 Medicare beneficiaries in a seven county region in northeastern Pennsylvania. Senators Santorum and Grassley were joined by Harold Anderson, CEO, Moses Taylor Hospital; Dr. Bill Host, CEO, Wyoming Valley Health Care System; Regis Cabonor, CEO, Bloomsburg Hospital; Dr. Richard Hartman, CEO, CMC; Jim Edwards, CEO, Greater Hazleton Health Alliance; Jeffrey Wright, CFO, Geisinger Wyoming Valley and South Wilkes-Barre; Steve Franko, CFO Mercy Hospital; Steve Grubbs, CEO, Berwick Hospital; Richard Hager, CFO, Marian Community Hospital; Steve Johnson, CEO, Williamsport Hospital; and Mike Strazella, Hospital and Health System Association of Pennsylvania.
 
 