SEN. SANTORUM SPONSORS IRANIAN NUCLEAR TRADE PROHIBITION ACT OF 2005
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today introduced legislation prohibiting United States businesses and entities from purchasing nuclear fuel assemblies from any person, company or government that also sells nuclear fuel assemblies to the Islamic Republic of Iran.  
   "Iran's support for terrorist organizations, its past record of nuclear enrichment deceit, and its opposition to U.S. foreign policy objectives in the Middle East, make Iran one of the most pressing national security issues facing the U.S. and the democratic countries of the world," Senator Santorum said. "The U.S. must take this important step towards eliminating nuclear activity in Iran. I believe that countries of the world should choose between trading with terrorist countries like Iran or maintaining good trade relations with the United States." 
   The Iranian Nuclear Trade Prohibition Act of 2005 specifically targets nuclear fuel assemblies, which are fabricated nuclear items that contain the enriched uranium which is required to create nuclear energy. While Iran asserts its right to enrich uranium for peaceful purposes, its designation as a "state sponsor of terrorism," and its nuclear program duplicity prove that Iran cannot be trusted to maintain a peaceful or civilian nuclear program. 
   "I urge the Bush Administration to embrace this legislation and follow the lead of the Clinton Administration in working to deny the sale or transfer of these assemblies to Iran," stated Senator Santorum. In 1999, the Clinton Administration successfully convinced Ukraine to deny the export of a turbine to Iran that pushed back the start of Iran's reactor at Bushehr roughly four years. 
   "Iran is one of the most dangerous countries in the world," noted Senator Santorum. "We must continue to call attention to Iran's reckless and provocative behavior so that the international community can succeed in halting Iran's nuclear ambitions."
   Contact: Robert Trayham, 202/224-0610.
 
 