SEN. SANTORUM TO PRESENT FUNDING TO CHAMPIONS OF CARING
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today presented a check for $100,000 to Champions of Caring at Abington Senior High School in Abington, Montgomery County. Santorum worked hard to secure this funding from the Department of Education, Fund for the Improvement of Education (FIE) through the fiscal year 2004 Omnibus Appropriations bill.  
   Santorum was joined by Barbara G. Shaiman, Executive Director, Champions of Caring; Dr. Robert Burt, Principal, Abington High School; and Randy Jackson, senior, Abington High School and Champions of Caring participant. Student participants of the Champions of Caring program at Neshaminey High School also joined the Senator. 
   "I am very grateful to Senator Santorum for his generosity to Champions of Caring. This gift will empower us to provide community and school-based programs that help reduce prejudice, encourage service, and promote positive community change and social justice," said Barbara Shaiman, Founder and Executive Director, Champions of Caring. "With his help, we are able to train young people in the Greater Philadelphia region to become peer leaders, mentors, and engaged citizens." 
   Champions of Caring is a not-for-profit organization which recognizes, celebrates, and honors students who have committed themselves to community service. The organization offers three programs that directly serve 9th, 10th, 11th, and 12th grade students in public, parochial, and independent schools throughout the greater Philadelphia region. Over 4,000 students from 110 schools have participated in one or more of its programs. After presenting the check, Santorum spoke with the senior class at Abington Senior High School. 
   "Champions of Caring is an excellent example of an organization that can help you give back to your community and develop leadership skills that will carry you beyond Abington Senior High School," said Santorum. "You have the opportunity to serve your community not only with your time, but by the way you treat others. We can build better neighborhoods and communities if we treat one another with compassion, love, and respect." 
   Randy Jackson, a Champions of Caring participant and senior at Abington High School, commented, "Champions of Caring will provide me with an opportunity to fight for social justice. This year all the Champions of Caring participants will focus on violence and how to fight it in school, at home, and even in the world. Champions of Caring is there to help make everyone aware of the issues that surround us and empower us to make a difference." 
   Abington Senior High School is a diverse community where service learning is an important part of their educational curriculum. During the last school year, high school students contributed 51,656 hours of service to the community. Many students participated in Champions of Caring, working on hunger relief and nutrition education, preparing meals at MANNA, packing food at the Greater Philadelphia Food Bank, and collecting more than one ton of canned food. 
   In 2003, Abington Senior High School received the Harris Wofford Award for having the most outstanding service program in the United States. Students also have the opportunity to participate in the Congressional Award program, pledging to meet goals in service, personal development, physical fitness, and cultural awareness trips. This fall, Senator Santorum will recognize 51 Abington students at the Constitution Center for their outstanding contributions to the community.
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 