SEN. SANTORUM COMMENTS ON EARTH DAY
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, issued the following statement in recognition of 'Earth Day 2005':  
   "As Pennsylvanians celebrate Earth Day on Friday, April 22, it is a time to recognize and admire the beauty of our state and reflect on the significant environmental accomplishments over the past several years. Congress has worked to improve our nation's air quality, promote land conservation and stewardship, improve our coastal regions and ocean conservation, and improve the quality of our water. 
   "I have supported numerous initiatives to preserve our state's natural environment. Among these initiatives is the Abandoned Mine Reclamation Program, which grants federal funds to help mining states like Pennsylvania recover land that was damaged through the mining process. I have also cosponsored several bipartisan bills to help preserve the Chesapeake Bay ecosystem. 
   "I was proud to support the Highlands Stewardship Act that passed the Senate last year. The Pennsylvania Highlands are comprised of acres of unspoiled, mountainous woodland that arc across the most densely settled and fastest-growing portions of the state. The Highlands Stewardship Act supports conservation partnership projects that are essential to the preservation of the Highlands Region. 
   "Earlier this year, I re-introduced legislation that will encourage the cleanup of brownfield sites that were once-functional industrial commercial sites and are now abandoned, inactive or under-used, and have been affected by environmental contamination. These projects are beneficial to cities across the Commonwealth, but especially in sites such as Reading, Bethlehem, and Pittsburgh that have been damaged by soil and water contamination left by industrial development. 
   "Protecting and preserving the natural resources of our state is an important priority of mine, and I will continue to support commonsense efforts to preserve the beauty and nature of Pennsylvania and protect the environment."
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 