SEN. SANTORUM MEETS WITH BOARD OF DIRECTORS AT ANIMAL FRIENDS IN NORTH HILLS
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), a member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry, today toured Animal Friends facility in Pittsburgh and met with the Board of Directors. Sen. Santorum was invited to visit Animal Friends in light of his commitment to pet and animal welfare. The Senator introduced S. 1139, the Pet Animal Welfare Statute (PAWS), legislation which is intended to modernize the Animal Welfare Act to assure compliance with minimum animal welfare standards in the commercial pet trade, as Congress originally intended.  
   "We are pleased to have the opportunity to show the Senator our progressive, new resource center and the unique ways we are impacting lives in our region, two- and four-footed alike. We appreciate Senator Santorum's leadership on the PAWS legislation; by strengthening oversight on commercial pet breeders, he is helping to ensure a safer and more human future for all of our pets," said David Swisher, Executive Director of Animal Friends. 
   Animal Friends is a 13.5 acre facility in the North Hills section of Allegheny County and is a leading pioneer in creating a multi-purpose animal shelter and community resource center. The facility provides a space for animals who are awaiting adoption as well as a modern veterinary unit. Animal Friends seeks to ensure a healthy transfer of animals through the various stages of adoption by families. 
   "This is a great facility right here in the North Hills; I appreciate the opportunity to see first-hand the work to which Animal Friends is committed. By and large the vast majority of animal dealers and shelters are run by people, like the folks here, who make every effort to treat animals humanely and comply with the law," said Senator Santorum. "But, it is a very sad reality that some people abuse animals and treat them inhumanely. I am committed to continuing my work on passing legislation to improve animal welfare." 
   Senator Santorum is widely recognized as a leader in the animal welfare community for his work against puppy mills, work to increase funding for the enforcement of the Animal Welfare Act, and his work to create felony level penalties for animal fighting activities.
 
 