SEN. SANTORUM TO SERVE ON AGRICULTURAL COMMITTEE
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, announced that he will serve on the Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry Committee in the 109th Congress.  
   "I am eager to represent the interests of Pennsylvania's number one industry by serving on the Agriculture Committee," said Senator Santorum. "Our national and state economy depends on the products of farmers, and it is imperative that we keep agriculture strong. I look forward to playing a more central role in the policy process that affects Pennsylvania's farming, conservation, animal welfare, food safety and forestry interests." 
   With over 7.7 million acres in farmland and more than $4 billion in annual receipts, agriculture is a key component of Pennsylvania's economy. Additionally, in 2002, more than 90% of the Commonwealth was classified as rural land. The Agriculture Committee has jurisdiction over the United States Department of Agriculture, which administers many important programs for rural residents. 
   As a member of the Agriculture Committee from 1994 until 2000, Senator Santorum played a leadership role in creating the Farmland Preservation Program, through which Pennsylvania has already received more than $12 million, allowing the protection and preservation of thousands of acres of farmland. Senator Santorum also worked to provide the benefits of risk management tools and cutting edge agriculture research to Pennsylvania's producers and processors, so they have the ability to compete in the increasingly competitive global marketplace. 
   Senator Santorum also serves as a member of the Finance Committee, which has jurisdiction over trade issues, an ever-increasing issue of importance for agriculture. Through his role on the Finance Committee, Senator Santorum will remain dedicated to promoting Pennsylvania's agriculture products as the United States negotiates trade agreements with other countries. 
   In addition to serving on the Agriculture Committee, Senator Santorum will retain his seat on the Finance and Banking Committees, as well as the Select Committee on Aging and the Committee on Rules and Administration.
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 