SEN. SANTORUM PRAISES SENATE PASSAGE OF PROGRAMS TO PROMOTE HEALTHY MARRIAGE, RESPONSIBLE FATHERHOOD
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today announced Senate passage of the Deficit Reduction Omnibus Reconciliation Act, which includes a provision that provides funding for the promotion of healthy marriage and responsible fatherhood.  
   The Deficit Reduction Omnibus Reconciliation Act provides $100 million annually for healthy marriage promotion. The program will provide grants to states and local community and faith-based organizations to carry out marriage promotion activities, such as marriage education programs, education for high school students on the value of marriage and relationship skills, divorce reduction programs, and marriage mentoring programs. 
   "Children growing up in married, two-parent homes are less likely to be victims of abuse, engage in high risk behaviors, and suffer from emotional problems. The studies are overwhelming. Therefore it is important that we communicate the value and the role of families in our society," said Senator Santorum. 
   Additionally, the legislation provides $50 million annually for the promotion of responsible fatherhood. The program will provide grants to states and local community and faith-based organizations to carry out responsible fatherhood promotion activities, such as developing a media campaign to encourage involvement of parents in the lives of their children, providing information on the benefits of a two parent household, and fostering economic stability of fathers. 
   "It is unfortunate that 24 million children live absent their biological father - and studies show that children who live in father-absent homes are more likely to be poor, use drugs, be victims of abuse, engage in criminal behavior, and experience emotional, educational, health or behavioral problems," said Senator Santorum. "As the father of six young children, I understand the importance of a two-parent household. Being a husband and father is the accomplishment of which I am most proud. I am pleased that programs encouraging responsible fatherhood will receive this much-needed funding, and it is my hope that more fathers will realize the important role they must play in the lives of their children." 
   Senator Santorum has worked in a bipartisan fashion over the last two Congresses on important anti-poverty initiatives. The promotion of healthy marriage and responsible fatherhood is part of the Senate Anti-Poverty Agenda that Senator Santorum helped unveil earlier this year. For more information on the Anti-Poverty Agenda, please visit.
 
 