SENS. SANTORUM, SPECTER ANNOUNCE FEDERAL FUNDING TO HELP PENNSYLVANIA PROGRAMS END HOMELESSNESS
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, and Sen. Arlen Specter (R-PA), a senior member of Senate Appropriations Committee, announced federal funding for Pennsylvania from the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) for local programs that provide supportive housing and programs to end homelessness.  
   "I am pleased to see HUD provide Pennsylvania with more than $63 million for programs and projects that are going to provide shelter for those in need," said Senator Santorum. "Now that the cold winter weather is upon us, it is critical that we help our neighbors and move folks into warm shelter and off the streets." 
   Senator Santorum has advocated for assistance and better response to the issue of homelessness. In July of this year Senator Santorum introduced a bill to reauthorize the Interagency Council on Homelessness for two additional years. The Council consists of representatives of eighteen federal agencies, and works to better coordinate the nation's response to homelessness. 
   "I commend the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) for their continuing efforts to provide these important social services for the disadvantaged citizens of Pennsylvania," said Senator Specter. "Food and shelter are basic human needs that should not be denied to any individual. This funding will ensure that Pennsylvania's homeless will receive the necessary support services they need to lead more productive, enriched lives." 
   The HUD funding announced today is provided in two ways, through HUD's Continuum of Care program, which is the largest competitive grant program at HUD and through Emergency Shelter Grants. Continuum of Care programs provide permanent and transitional housing to homeless persons. In addition, Continuum grants fund important services including job training, health care, mental health counseling, substance abuse treatment and child care. Emergency Shelter Grants provide funds to state governments, large cities, urban counties, and U.S. territories for homeless shelters and homeless prevention programs. 
   Pennsylvania is being awarded $53,622,457 to Continuum of Care programs and $9,668,800 in Emergency Shelter Grants. For more information about specific grant recipients go to: 
  http://www.hud.gov/offices/cpd/homeless/budget/2005/pa/totals.xls.
 
 