SEN. SANTORUM TOURS UNDERGROUND MINE IN WASHINGTON COUNTY TO ASSESS SAFETY CONDITIONS FIRSTHAND
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today toured Mine 84 in Washington, Pennsylvania to see firsthand the conditions of a Pennsylvania mine. A pool television camera and print reporter accompanied the Senator on the tour. This was the first time a television camera has been allowed into a Pennsylvania, Consol Energy Company, Inc. - owned mine since the Sago Mining accident earlier this year. 
   "One more mining death is one too many. We need to take prompt action to take a serious look at making this industry as safe as it can be. As the grandson of a coal miner and elected representative of many mine employees and employers in my state of Pennsylvania, I am committed to working with my colleagues to ensure the safety and health of miners everywhere, not just in the Commonwealth," said Senator Santorum.
   "Since his earliest days in Congress, Senator Santorum has shown a concern for the coal industry and the many Pennsylvanians who have worked to produce this valuable resource. We are pleased that he would take the time to visit Mine 84 and to talk with some of the more than 550 people who work there as he and other members of Congress begin their deliberations on mine safety issues," said Peter B. Lilly, Chief Operating Officer - Coal Division of Consol Energy Company, Inc.
   Earlier this month Senator Santorum cosponsored an amendment to the tax reconciliation bill with Senators Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) and Robert Byrd (D-WV) to provide tax incentives to companies for the purchase of costly advanced mine safety equipment. Many mines, particularly small operations, have a hard time affording equipment that is not required, but which would make the mine a safer place. This amendment will help make this new technology more affordable by providing partial expensing for the equipment.
   This equipment includes: emergency communication technology; electronic location devices; emergency oxygen-generating, self-rescue devices that provide oxygen for at least 90 minutes; pre-positioned supplies of oxygen to allow miners in case of accident to survive at least 48 hours; and comprehensive atmospheric monitoring systems which monitor the levels of carbon monoxide, methane, and oxygen present in all areas of the mine. The amendment also provides a partial tax credit for the amount employers spend to train their employees as mine rescue teams.
   For more information about Senator Santorum and mine safety go to http://santorum.senate.gov and type the keyword MINERS.
 
 