SEN. SANTORUM TRAVELS TO PITTSBURGH TO PRESENT FUNDING FOR NEW ANGER MANAGEMENT PROGRAM FOR CHILDREN
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, met today with Joanne Rogers, wife of the late Fred Rogers and Chair of the Board of Family Communications, Inc. which was founded by Mr. Rogers to produce the PBS series Mister Rogers' Neighborhood and other materials for young children, their families, and those who care for them.  
   FCI President Bill Isler also attended the check presentation ceremony in the Mister Rogers' Neighborhood Exhibit at the Pittsburgh Children's Museum. Pittsburgh-based FCI produced Mister Rogers' Neighborhood for three decades. 
   The $100,000 in federal funding secured by Senator Santorum and Senator Arlen Specter (R-PA) will help launch a new childcare training project in Pennsylvania this fall, entitled Project MAPS (Managing Anger, Promoting Safety). This project trains early childhood educators so they can help young children who have difficulty with self-control learn techniques to deal with anger more effectively. 
   "I'm thrilled to be able to play a role in helping Family Communications, Inc. get the help they need to ensure that the important work they do to improve the lives of children continues," said Senator Santorum. "My hope is that FCI's new workshop will provide childcare providers in Pennsylvania with the training they need to help children learn how to effectively deal with anger. It's imperative young children develop healthy social skills that will carry them into adulthood." 
   Joanne Rogers thanked Senator Santorum for his continued support of FCI's work. 
   "We are deeply grateful for Senator Santorum's support for these training materials that Family Communications has developed," said Mrs. Rogers. "Through these funds, we're able to offer insight and strategies to early childhood educators as they help children deal with their angry feelings in positive ways and develop self-control." 
   Senator Specter, Chairman of the Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations Subcommittee, also played a significant role in securing this important federal funding for FCI to offer their workshops in Pennsylvania. 
   "I am pleased to see Family Communications, Inc. receive this funding to continue their important work in educating and strengthening children and families," Senator Specter said. "In conjunction with Family Communications, Inc., children, parents and educators learn to meet challenges with cooperation and communication, which will ultimately empower these children to develop into adults with strong character." 
   The new workshop that will be offered by FCI this fall is called "Challenging Behaviors: Where do We Begin?" This will be an extension of the current Project MAPS training workshop entitled "What Do You Do with the Mad that You Feel?" 
   Project Director Sam Newbury said, "From the enthusiastic response of early childhood educators in Iowa where we piloted these training materials, it's obvious that the two workshops work well together; the new workshop builds on the skills taught in the first." 
   "Pre-school years are the times when children normally begin to acquire the skills of managing anger. If these skills are not developed early on, it becomes more difficult for children to learn them," added Mr. Newbury. "By working with young children between the ages of 2 and 5, you're really working to lower the incidence of violence in later years." 
   Participants in the training will receive materials to help them in their direct work with children, including a 400-page book, a children's book about the ups and downs of friendship, as well as a Mister Rogers' Neighborhood Child Care Video Library program for children about angry feelings and pamphlets for parents.
   Contact: Amy Hybels, 202/224-8930.
 
 