SEN. SANTORUM FIGHTS TO PRESERVE INPATIENT REHABILITATION CARE
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today held a press conference to discuss recently introduced legislation, S. 1405, the Preserving Patient Access to Inpatient Rehabilitation Hospitals Act of 2005. Sen. Ben Nelson (D-NE), who is an original sponsor of the legislation, along with Rep. Frank LoBiondo (R-2-NJ) and Rep. Nina Lowey (D-18-NY) joined Sen. Santorum to discuss the legislation.  
   The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) recently implemented a regulation known as the 75% Rule for Inpatient Rehabilitation Facilities (IRFs), requiring that a percentage of patients, increasing over the next few years up to 75%, must be treated for one of thirteen specific conditions in order for a facility to retain IRF status. IRF status gives the hospital the ability to receive adequate Medicare compensation due to the intense rehabilitation services that are provided. Without this additional funding from Medicare, many patients will not be able to receive the type of care they truly require. IRFs are an essential provider of post-acute hospital care, which treat patients for conditions such as spinal cord injury, major multiple trauma, stroke, brain injury, severe burns, knee or hip joint replacements, and neurological disorders. Following a serious injury or illness and subsequent hospitalization, many patients move to IRFs. 
   "When this regulation was first initiated in 2002, CMS faced great opposition from a number of experts and elected officials, myself included, forcing consistent review of their proposal," said Senator Santorum. "It was my hope that CMS would hear the concerns of Congress and their constituents and choose not to move forward with further implementation until a full year of data was available at the 50% threshold, and adequate analysis could be conducted to ensure that patient access was not being harmed. Unfortunately, CMS announced that they would proceed with implementing the revised and expanded classification criteria for IRFs adopted in the final rule. I am extremely disappointed by CMS's decision to move forward with implementing a more restrictive threshold for compliance, and in response, have joined Senator Ben Nelson in introducing the Preserving Patient Access to Inpatient Rehabilitation Hospitals Act of 2005." 
   Pennsylvania has 102 licensed IRFs and over 10,000 employees, approximately ten percent of the nation's IRFs. In limiting the number of IRF patients who can be admitted and receive the appropriate level of Medicare reimbursement, CMS is making it extremely difficult for many of these organizations to retain their current levels of business and employment. 
   "Health care is most effective when doctors and patients, not government organizations or insurance companies, make treatment decisions," said Senator Santorum. "By limiting access based on strict conditions verses medical necessity, CMS is restricting a doctor's available treatment options, and jeopardizing the quality of outcomes for patients requiring IRF care. This legislation, that I worked to introduce, will prevent this from happening by requiring that the threshold for IRFs does not increase for two years, and establishing a National Advisory Council on Medical Rehabilitation to determine the best clinical criteria for inpatient rehabilitation services."
   Contact: Robert Traynham, 202/224-0610.
 
 