SENS. SANTORUM, SPECTER DELIVER $40 MILLION TO SUPPORT ONGOING CONSTRUCTION PROJECT AT PITTSBURGH VA HEALTH CARE SYSTEM
  Sens. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, and Arlen Specter (R-PA), a senior member of the U.S. Senate Appropriations Committee, today announced that during yesterday's markup of the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations bill, the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans Affairs (VA) included $40 million to support the ongoing construction project at the Pittsburgh VA Health Care System. Sens. Santorum and Specter played a major role in securing this funding which will support the Ambulatory Care Center at the Heinz Veterans Medical Center in Aspinwall.  
   "I am extremely pleased that the Subcommittee listened to my argument for the necessity of adding this funding to this bill," said Senator Santorum. "The Pittsburgh VA Health Care System has been labeled a 'model for all VA' and this construction project is currently moving along on schedule. Without this critical funding, construction on this project would have been significantly delayed and Pennsylvania's veterans would have suffered." 
   "Senator Santorum and I remain committed to ensuring that the health care needs of our nation's veterans are not compromised by the eventual closing of the Highland Drive facility in Pittsburgh," said Senator Specter. "This funding is vital in continuing that commitment and I am pleased my colleagues have recognized its importance in providing quality health care to our veterans. The men and women of our armed services have made tremendous sacrifices for our Nation and it is vital we that uphold our commitment to care for them." 
   The President omitted the construction project funding for the Pittsburgh VA Health Care System from his FY07 Budget Request to Congress; the House of Representatives did not include any funding in their markup of the bill. Without this funding, construction of new facilities at the Pittsburgh VA would be significantly delayed. 
   Both Senator Santorum and Senator Specter have been working hard to ensure that these important funds are allocated for the Pittsburgh VA. In February, they sent a letter to Secretary Nicholson asking why the Pittsburgh VA System was not fully funded in the President's request. In March, Senators Santorum and Specter wrote to Senators Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX) and Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) urging them to include funding in the Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans Affairs' bill for the ongoing construction project at the Pittsburgh VA System.
 
 