SEN. SANTORUM COSPONSORS BUDGET REFORM LEGISLATION TO RESTORE FISCAL DISCIPLINE
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, announced today that he will cosponsor, S3521, the Stop Over-Spending Act of 2006, following the Budget Committee's successful mark-up of the legislation on Tuesday.  
   This bill includes two budget reform provisions that Senator Santorum has long-supported. He has been a cosponsor of the Commission on the Accountability and Review of Federal Agencies Act since 2002. This bill establishes a commission to evaluate federal programs, the findings of which will be submitted to Congress, under expedited review, with a plan recommending wasteful spending be eliminated. It is modeled after President Reagan's Grace Commission to eliminate government waste. The Stop Over-Spending Act also establishes a Presidential Line Item Veto process to quickly and effectively eliminate wasteful spending. Senator Santorum is an original cosponsor of this legislation in the 109th Congress, and was an original cosponsor of similar legislation in 1995. 
   "I am pleased that several of the budget reform measures for which I have long advocated are getting their due attention," said Senator Santorum. "I commend Budget Committee Chairman Judd Gregg for pushing the envelope of the budget reform process to ensure judicious government spending. I will continue to fight against passing the bill of our government's spending on to our children and grandchildren." 
   Senator Santorum will also cosponsor S. 2590, the Federal Funding Accountability and Transparency Act. The bill would require the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) to establish and maintain a single public website that lists all entities receiving federal funds, including the name of each entity, the amount of federal funds the entity has received annually by program, and the location of the entity. It is being sponsored by Senators Tom Coburn (R-OK) and Barack Obama (D-IL), Tom Carper (D-DE) and John McCain (R-AZ).
 
 