SEN. SANTORUM APPLAUDS PASSAGE OF WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT ACT
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, applauded recent Senate passage of S. 728, the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA). This bill authorizes critical flood control, shore protection, dam safety, storm damage reduction, and environmental restoration projects across the country.  
   "This bill is long overdue, and in light of Hurricane Katrina and the June flooding that hit the northeast, I am extremely pleased that the Senate has passed this bill," said Senator Santorum. "The people of Pennsylvania deserve adequate flood protection so they can have the peace of mind that they will not be flooded every time we get heavy rains." 
   Included in the bill is an authorization for $43.3 million for a flood control project in Bloomsburg, Pennsylvania which recently suffered extensive damage as a result of flooding. Residents of Bloomsburg have continually been subject to the risks of flooding from both the Susquehanna River and Fishing Creek. This project involves the construction of earthen levees, concrete floodwalls and closure structures that will stretch for three miles and protect 550 homes and 32 businesses in addition to the Bloomsburg Fairgrounds. On July 19, 2006 Senator Santorum spoke on the Senate floor about the importance of this project. Footage is available at (http://santorum.senate.gov/public/index.cfm?FuseAction=PressOffice.VideoClips&CFID=7347209&CFTOKEN=23356608) 
   The bill also includes a $3.1 million authorization of funding for the SmartLock Technology Pilot Program at the Port of Pittsburgh that will implement technologies to facilitate communications between tow boats and lock facilities to increase lock efficiency and safety in periods of low visibility. The Port of Pittsburgh loses 11 days per year due to barges not being able to navigate through locks in periods of heavy fog. 
   When originally introduced, the bill included a provision that deauthorized the Chartiers Creek Flood Control Project in Washington County, Pennsylvania. The project consists of widening and deepening the creek's channel to better protect against floods. Senator Santorum was successful in removing that provision, so the flood control project for Chartiers remains authorized.
 
 