SEN. SANTORUM COMMENDS NATIONAL VIDEO GAME RETAILERS FOR ESTABLISHING A 'COMMITMENT TO PARENTS'
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today made remarks at a press conference with members of the Entertainment Software Rating Board (ESRB) Retail Council to announce a commitment to enhance compliance with store policies regarding the sale of mature-rated video games and educate customers about ESRB video game ratings.  
   The ESRB Retail Council includes the following video game retailers - Best Buy, Blockbuster, Circuit City, GameStop/EB Games, MovieGallery/Hollywood Video/Game Crazy, Target, and Wal-Mart, representing over 20,000 retail locations at which 80 percent of computer and video games are sold. In addition to enforcing store policies and implementing ratings education programs and in-store signage, the ESRB Retail Council's "Commitment to Parents" calls for members to participate in "mystery shopper" audits each year to measure the level of sales policy enforcement, train store associates about ESRB ratings and game sales procedures and policies, provide ESRB ratings in promotional vehicles, establish a mechanism for consumer redress for non-compliance with sales procedures and policies, and share best practices with other members. 
   "As the father of six children, I want to make sure that kids are getting age-appropriate material," said Senator Santorum. "Parents must be educated on how video games are rated and what is appropriate for their children. I commend these retailers for truly stepping up to the plate, and I hope parents will make great use of this information to make the best decisions for their children." 
   The ESRB is a non-profit, self-regulatory body for the entertainment software industry. The ESRB independently applies game content ratings, establishes and enforces advertising guidelines, and ensures responsible online privacy practice by the computer and video game industry.
   Contact: Robert Traynham, 202/224-0610.
 
 