SEN. SANTORUM DISCUSSED LEGISLATIVE INITIATIVES WITH MEMBERS OF LEHIGH VALLEY LATINO COMMUNITY
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, joined the Hispanic Chamber of Commerce of the Lehigh Valley for a community dialogue focusing on issues of importance in the Latino Community.  
   "I am pleased to have this opportunity to hold a discussion with members of the Allentown Latino Community," said Senator Santorum. "The Latino Community enriches the cultural and ethnically diverse fabric of Pennsylvania communities. I appreciate the opportunity to share some insight about my legislative initiatives in the Senate, as well as listen to feedback." 
   "I am honored as a pastor and a community leader to have Senator Santorum use this church as a location to reach out to the Latino Community. We are confident this is only the beginning of a long and productive dialogue that will benefit the Lehigh Community at large," said Bishop Eddy Aybar, Pastor of the Church of God in Allentown. 
   Senator Santorum discussed several of his current legislative initiatives in the United States Senate. Santorum recently introduced the Encouraging Work Act of 2005 to permanently extend, improve and combine tax credits which help welfare recipients find jobs that transition them from dependence to self-sufficiency. Senator Santorum highlighted the Senate Republican Poverty Alleviation Agenda which encourages ownership through personal asset building; helps private charities better serve the needs of the poor; recognizes the importance of faith-based charities in delivering social services; strengthens families by promoting healthy marriages and responsible fatherhood; and promotes work opportunities to encourage independence and a better life - all initiatives Senator Santorum has been committed to throughout his tenure in Congress. Santorum also highlighted his work in the Senate as an advocate for building a culture of life and of compassion.
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 