SEN. SANTORUM: 'IMPROVING THE LIVES OF OUR TROOPS'
  "Improving the Lives of Our Troops"
   America's troops are currently stationed in Iraq, Afghanistan, and dozens of other countries across the globe, helping to safeguard the liberties we all hold dear. Just as importantly, hundreds of thousands of active military and reserve personnel are stationed here at home, ready to respond to their country's call. These men and women in uniform serve their country so that we all may live our lives in freedom. As a nation, we owe it to these brave Americans to do all that we can to assist them as they undertake these solemn responsibilities. I learned the importance of giving back to our troops from my parents, both of whom were longtime Veterans Administration health system employees. I am reminded of this lesson as the Senate takes up the Fiscal Year (FY) 2005 National Defense Authorization Act. This vital legislation will help ensure that our military men and women have the best weapons and protection, the best technical support, and the best benefits that their country can provide for them.  
   The National Defense Authorization Act represents Congress's annual investment in our armed forces. This legislation authorizes $422.2 billion in defense programs for FY 2005, an increase of $20.9 billion above the previous year's funding levels and an increase of 3.4 percent in real terms. Included in that total is $76.5 billion in procurement funding, allowing our military to purchase state-of-the-art equipment for our troops. This legislation also invests $68.6 billion in research and development programs to design next generation military equipment for our forces. Lastly, for our most important military component-our troops-the bill authorizes an across-the-board military pay raise of 3.5 percent, a permanent increase in the family separation allowance from $100 per month to $250 per month, and a permanent increase in special pay for troops subject to hostile fire or imminent danger at $225 monthly, an increase over the current level of $150. This legislation also provides more than $400 million above the President's budget request for enhanced health benefits for reserves. These steps will truly improve the lives of our fighting men and women. 
   Pennsylvanians should be aware of another important benefit they receive under the National Defense Authorization Act: this bill helps maintain and create jobs in Pennsylvania. From keeping our troops supplied with conventional ammunition to helping transform the structure of our armed forces, Pennsylvania workers will play a key role in making it happen. The legislation contains more than $26 million in munitions contracts to Pennsylvania firms either directly or as subcontractors, benefiting workers in Philadelphia, Wilkes-Barre, Red Lion, and Towanda. Additionally, $10.5 million in important research and development funds for Pittsburgh-area companies is authorized as a part of the Defense Department's Future Combat System initiative. This funding would help develop high-tech, lightweight Army ground vehicles that would allow for more rapid deployment of Army forces and equipment around the globe. This bill would also help safeguard the well being of our troops deployed in the field, by authorizing $4 million in funding for the Marine Corps to procure 1,100 Rapid Intravenous Infusion Pumps and replacement IV pumps and cartridges for the resuscitation of combat-wounded Marines-a program run by a Plymouth Meeting company. 
   I understand that in today's political climate, lawmakers and the American public are split on their views about what should be America's defense posture in this age of global terrorism. But disagreements over military policy cannot keep us from doing all that we can to better meet the needs of current troops and allow them to function at the highest possible levels. I urge Congress and the President to expeditiously pass the FY 2005 National Defense Authorization Act. Improving the lives of our troops is a goal we all need to support.
 
 