SENS. SANTORUM, SPECTER ANNOUNCE PASSAGE OF LEGISLATION TO ASSIST RURAL AIRPORTS
  Sens. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, and Sen. Arlen Specter (R-PA), a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, announced today that the U.S. Senate has passed an amendment to the 2006 Transportation Appropriations bill to assist rural airports.  
   The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) provides a $1 million grant to rural airports with passenger boarding in excess of 10,000 annually. In the wake of September 11, 2001, many small airports saw their annual boardings plummet. In response, Congress included a provision in the most recent FAA authorization bill which allowed airports whose passenger boardings fell below 10,000 to retain entitlement funding at $1 million per year. The two-year grace period for these airports expired on September 30, 2005, leaving those airports whose boarding levels are below 10,000 annually with 85% less federal assistance. 
   The legislation, sponsored by Senator Jeff Bingaman (D-NM) and cosponsored by Senators Santorum (R-PA) and Specter (R-PA), passed in the Senate and will extend the grace period for another fiscal year, benefiting Pennsylvania airports in Altoona, Bradford, Brookville, Lancaster and Reading. 
   "I applaud the passage of this amendment that ensures Pennsylvania's airports will maintain access to FAA funding," said Senator Santorum. "Rural airports in Pennsylvania remain important assets to our economy. These funds are essential to small airports as they continue their efforts to provide safe and convenient service." 
   "I am pleased my colleagues in the Senate have adopted this amendment to the FY06 Transportation Appropriations Bill," said Senator Specter. "This legislation, cosponsored by Senator Santorum and myself, will temporarily ensure that nearly 50 rural airports, including five in Pennsylvania, will not lose substantial federal funding due to a decrease of passenger boardings as a result of the effects of 9/11. Commercial air service in Pennsylvania's rural communities is vital because it greatly increases the potential for economic development and job creation in those regions."
   Contact: Robert Traynham, 202/224-0610; Scott Hoeflich, 202/224-9020.
 
 