SEN. SANTORUM, REP. HART JOIN LABOR SECRETARY CHAO TO ANNOUNCE NATIONAL EMERGENCY GRANT FUNDING FOR PENNSYLVANIA
 Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, and Rep. Melissa Hart (R-4-PA) joined Department of Labor Secretary Elaine Chao, today, to announce National Emergency Grant Funding for Pennsylvania.  
   The $10.4 million grant is a discretionary award provided by the Secretary of Labor to the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania to help create 672 temporary jobs in Pennsylvania. It is intended to expand employment service capacity at the state and local levels by providing time-limited funding assistance in response to the effects of Tropical Depression Ivan. Workers who lost their jobs in counties declared a federal disaster may be eligible for one of three benefits: 1) Unemployment Insurance (UI) while they are out of work; 2) Disaster Unemployment Assistance (DUA) while they are out of work if they do not qualify for regular UI benefits; or 3) temporary jobs through National Emergency Grant assistance. 
   "I am pleased that the federal government was able to come through for Pennsylvania and provide funding for individuals in communities across the Commonwealth who have been affected by Tropical Depression Ivan," said Senator Santorum. "Today was an excellent opportunity for Secretary Chao to see how the Keystone state has been affected by Ivan and how the Department of Labor is going to directly help Pennsylvanians." 
   "I would like to thank the Administration, and notable Secretary Chao, for recognizing the devastation that Southwestern Pennsylvania and the Commonwealth as a whole have sustained as a result of Tropical Depression Ivan," said Congresswoman Hart. "This funding is particularly valuable because it not only fills an employment gap for some who have lost jobs due to the storm, it also supplies necessary workers to rebuild and provide relief to some of our region's citizens who need it most." 
   DUA is available to people who are self-employed or who would not normally qualify for state unemployment assistance. DUA covers those who, as a direct result of the disaster, no longer have a job; are unable to reach their place of employment; were to begin work and now do not have a job or who cannot work because of an injury or illness caused by the disaster. 
   The temporary jobs funded through the NEG typically last for 6 months, with base wages set by the state in consultation with the Department of Labor. Pennsylvania's One Stop Career Centers, known as Career Link Centers, will connect eligible individuals to these temporary jobs. The jobs are in projects that provide food, clothing, shelter and other humanitarian assistance for disaster victims. 
   There are 54 counties that qualify for the DUA funding: Allegheny, Armstrong, Beaver, Bedford, Blair, Bradford, Bucks, Butler, Cameron, Carbon, Centre, Chester, Clarion, Clearfield, Clinton, Columbia, Crawford, Cumberland, Dauphin, Delaware, Franklin, Fulton, Greene, Huntingdon, Indiana, Jefferson, Juniata, Lackawanna, Lawrence, Lebanon, Lehigh, Luzerne, Lycoming, Mifflin, Monroe, Montgomery, Montour, Northampton, Northumberland, Perry, Philadelphia, Pike, Schuylkill, Snyder, Somerset, Sullivan, Susquehanna, Tioga, Union, Washington, Westmoreland, Wayne, Wyoming, and York. 
   Regular state unemployment compensation claimants not affected by the storms should continue to file claims as normal on the Internet or through the PA Teleclaims system. People who need help conducting a work search can contact the nearest Pennsylvania Career Link for assistance. Additional job services are available on the Internet through the Pennsylvania Career Link Web site at: www.state.pa.us, PA Keyword, "jobs." 
   Individuals, such as the self-employed, who do not qualify for UI may be eligible for DUA benefits by calling toll free 877-345-3382.
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 