'KEEPING PENNSYLVANIANS HEALTHY - WHY REFORM IS NECESSARY'
  By Sen. Rick Santorum
   Unfortunately, due to recent news that Chiron Corporation will not be able to deliver 48 million doses of flu vaccine to the U.S., Americans are experiencing a sprint for flu vaccines, long lines, and weary faces. In the past, health agencies begged Americans to get a flu shot. But with the current increased media attention, people are unnecessarily in panic mode. I understand that the flu vaccine shortage may be frightening to people, and that is why I want to assure you that we have dealt with shortages before and we will get through this one.  
   This past week, Secretary of Health and Human Services Tommy Thompson urged "people to relax, because the flu season is not (yet) here." Currently, the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) is identifying shortage areas, and quickly shipping the necessary resources to those areas. 
   Priority for the flu shot is being given to seniors over 65; children under 2; those with severe chronic illnesses; pregnant women; residents of nursing homes and other chronic-care facilities; and household members and caregivers of infants under the age of 6 months. I strongly encourage individuals who believe they are at increased risk to contact their local healthcare providers. 
   Contrary to recent headlines, President Bush is not to blame. In fact, he has increased funding for flu preparedness by 720 percent since 2001-more than any President. The reason we are in this situation today is because there are only two manufacturers that provide the flu vaccine to the U.S. Thirty years ago we had twenty-five. The reason there are only two manufacturers is because there is great risk and little reward for producing vaccines. 
   In Pennsylvania, we saw firsthand the risks experienced by the vaccine industry. Wyeth Pharmaceuticals used to make flu vaccines at a plant in Marietta, PA, employing over 800 people. For the 2002-2003 winter, it made 21 million doses. However, fewer people wanted the vaccines than originally anticipated, and since flu vaccines can't be saved from year to year, Wyeth was forced to destroy 7 million unsold doses, resulting in a $30 million loss. With unpredictable demand, low margins, and liability lawsuits, Wyeth closed its plant in Marietta, reducing the number of manufacturers to the two we have today. 
   Manufacturers of vaccines face significant liability risks. One class action lawsuit pending in 2003 sought $30 billion in damages on a $6 billion industry, suing for damages 5 times more than the total net worth of all vaccine manufacturers. As a result, this year, only Aventis Pasteur, with its plant in Swiftwater, Pennsylvania will be delivering flu vaccines to Americans. 
   In the 1980s, Congress created the Vaccine Injury Compensation Program (VICP) to protect vaccine makers from the horrific burden of lawsuits, which nearly caused them to go bankrupt. The VICP resolves claims resulting from adverse reactions to mandated childhood vaccines. I have sought to decrease the risk of liability through numerous initiatives, most recently through a provision in the JOBS bill, passed by the House and the Senate, that adds influenza vaccines to the VICP. President George W. Bush is set to sign this legislation into law. This provision is one step to reducing frivolous lawsuits against vaccine manufacturers; but unless we enact meaningful liability reform our vaccine supplies will continue to be vulnerable. 
   Pennsylvania companies are also working hard to find alternatives to the current flu vaccine process, which requires a six-month incubation period and is extremely labor-intensive and complicated. 
   There are ways to protect against influenza-beyond getting a vaccination. Please visit CDC's website at http://www.cdc.gov for information on preventing the spread of the flu. If you do get the flu, please take comfort that we have a healthy supply of medicines to treat you. 
   Secretary Tommy Thompson stated, "You can scare people and make them stand in line by scaring them. Or we can work together. It's a demonstration of a difference in leadership." When it comes to leadership, I choose to stand with someone who does not capitalize on the fears of citizens, but instead puts forth a focused plan to bring us together-to solve a public health challenge. We must look forward, increase funding for flu research, and reform our liability system. First and foremost, we must look out for those who are the most vulnerable to influenza.
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 