SEN. SANTORUM, SECRETARY JACKSON ATTEND GENERATIONS GROUNDBREAKING CEREMONY IN WILKINSBURG
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA) attended the groundbreaking ceremony today for Generations, a permanent supportive housing program for older homeless men. Sen. Santorum joined Alphonso Jackson, Secretary of U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development; Charles Curie, Agency Administrator of the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration; and Major General Arthur T. Dean, Chairman and CEO of Community Anti-Drug Coalitions of America.  
   Generations is sponsored by Strength Inc., a non-profit, faith and community-based organization located in Wilkinsburg. Senator Santorum has been a strong advocate of Strength Inc. and has worked in the U.S. Senate to pass legislation that will allow community and faith-based organizations to better serve those in need. Generations is expected to house fifteen men in the building once construction is completed. 
   "Strength Inc. is a model in southwestern Pennsylvania of the services, programs, and true compassion that faith-based organizations bring to the communities they serve. Here in Wilkinsburg, we can see the tangible results of one man with a vision who inspired other people to join him in taking back their neighborhood," said Senator Santorum. "The work of charitable organizations and their volunteers has been a source of encouragement at a time when too many Americans feel hopeless. We must continue to support organizations and individuals who offer support and care for those who are in need in our society." 
   Last month, Senator Santorum introduced bipartisan legislation, the CARE Act (S. 1780), with Senator Joe Lieberman (D-CT). If passed, the CARE Act will provide $150 million for the Compassion Capital Fund to assist small community and faith-based organizations with technical assistance and expand their capacity to serve. 
   "Rick Santorum has done more than anyone for charitable choice and faith-based organizations," said Reverend Marcus Harvey, Founder and CEO of Strength Inc. "If you give a man a fish, he can eat for one day; if you teach him to fish, he can eat for a lifetime. That is what Senator Santorum is trying to encourage through community and faith-based organizations, giving individuals skills they can use for a lifetime." 
   The CARE Act of 2005 provides commonsense provisions to induce charitable giving. Among these include the above-the-line deduction for non-itemizers. Senator Santorum is hopeful that his colleagues in the United States Senate will join him in completing this important unfinished business. In the 108th Congress, the CARE Act garnered the endorsements of more than 1,600 organizations and 23 cosponsors in the Senate, from both sides of the aisle. 
   For more information on the CARE Act go to: http://santorum.senate.gov. 
  For more information on Strength, Inc. go to: http://preventionpartners.samhsa.gov/profile_view.asp?id=895
   Contact: Robert Traynham, 202/224-0610.
 
 