SEN. SANTORUM REMINDS PENNSYLVANIANS LESS THAN TWO WEEKS LEFT TO REGISTER FOR DISASTER ASSISTANCE
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today announced that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and the Pennsylvania Emergency Management Agency (PEMA) have issued a reminder to Pennsylvania residents that the deadline to register for federal disaster assistance is Tuesday, October 3, 2006.  
   "I encourage Pennsylvanians whose homes and businesses were damaged by the historic floods this past June to contact FEMA before October 3, 2006 to learn if they are eligible for any federal assistance toward recovery efforts," said Senator Santorum. 
   From FEMA and PEMA: 
   Homeowners, renters, and business owners who live in Berks, Bradford, Bucks, Carbon, Chester, Columbia, Dauphin, Franklin, Lackawanna, Lancaster, Lebanon, Luzerne, Monroe, Montgomery, Montour, Northampton, Northumberland, Pike, Schuylkill, Susquehanna, Wayne, or Wyoming counties, who experienced damages or losses due to the late-June floods, may be eligible for disaster assistance. 
   After a federal disaster is declared in an area, many forms of assistance become available to help individuals and families recover and rebuild. The Individuals and Households Program (IHP) provides funds directly to households affected by a disaster, to assist with minor repairs and clean-up, rental assistance for temporary housing, and other disaster-related needs. To date, $19 million has been disbursed through IHP to eligible residents. 
   In addition to IHP, low-interest disaster loans are available through the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA). SBA loan applications are given to every applicant. If an SBA loan application is received, it should be completed and mailed in immediately. Even if the loan is denied, by submitting the application, registrants may become eligible for additional grants to assist with disaster-related needs. 
   Pennsylvanians can register for assistance by calling FEMA's toll-free number, 1-800-621-FEMA (3362) or TTY 1-800-462-7585 for the hearing- and speech-impaired. Both numbers are available from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m., seven days a week until further notice. Multilingual operators are also available to answer your call. Those with Internet access can register online at www.fema.gov. The deadline is Tuesday, October 3, 2006. 
   FEMA's temporary housing assistance and grants for public transportation expenses, medical and dental expenses, and funeral and burial expenses do not require individuals to apply for an SBA loan. However, an applicant must complete an SBA loan application to be eligible for assistance that covers personal property, vehicle repair or replacement, and moving and storage expenses.
 
 