SENS. SANTORUM, CORZINE INTRODUCE BIPARTISAN LEGISLATION ESTABLISHING KIDS ACCOUNTS TO PROMOTE SAVINGS FOR CHILDREN
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, and Sen. Jon Corzine (D-NJ) today introduced bipartisan legislation to expand opportunities for young adults, encourage savings, and promote financial literacy by establishing investment accounts, known as KIDS Accounts, for every child in America. The Sens. were joined by Reps. Tom Petri (R-WI), Harold Ford (D-TN), Phil English (R-PA) and Patrick Kennedy (D-RI) who are introducing companion legislation in the House.  
   "The bipartisan legislation that I introduced with Senator Corzine will equip families with the resources they need to move one step closer to living in financial security and dignity," said Santorum. "This legislation will go a long way in helping our nation's children to understand the importance of saving and money management so they can appreciate the value of building assets over the long term." 
   "Every American child should grow up knowing that when they reach adulthood, they will have the ability to invest in themselves and in their own education," said Corzine. "This proposal will promote savings, enhance financial literacy and help realize the American ideal of equal opportunity." 
   The America Saving for Personal Investment, Retirement, and Education (ASPIRE) Act will provide a KIDS Account for every newborn child. Beginning in 2006, each account will be endowed with a one-time $500 contribution. Children living in households earning below the national median income will be eligible for both a supplemental contribution of up to $500 at birth, as well as the opportunity to earn $500 per year in matching funds for amounts saved in the account. 
   Families and others will be allowed to contribute up to $1,000 (after-tax) into these KIDS accounts each year. When children turn 18 years old, they will have the ability to make withdrawals without penalty to pay for college or to purchase their first home. The KIDS Account Fund will be established within the Treasury and will be governed by a Board of Directors similar in structure to the Board that oversees the Thrift Savings Plan (TSP), the retirement program for federal employees. Account holders will be able to keep their accounts with this fund or transfer them to private financial service providers after their 18th birthday.
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 