SEN. SANTORUM CHAMPIONS LEGISLATION TO IMPROVE QUALITY OF LIFE FOR HEPATITIS B PATIENTS
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today introduced the National Hepatitis B Act, bipartisan legislation calling for a comprehensive program in support of the prevention, education, diagnosis, and treatment of hepatitis B. Sen. Diane Feinstein (D-CA) is an original cosponsor of the bill.  
   "Hepatitis B is a potentially life-threatening, highly contagious, viral infection that leads to liver damage, liver failure, and liver cancer," said Senator Santorum. "One out of twenty Americans has been infected with hepatitis B at some point in their lives, and each year, more than 5,000 Americans die from hepatitis B-related liver complications. Hepatitis B is referred to as a 'silent disease' because symptoms are often unrecognized, and consequently, only 3 to 4 percent of patients with chronic hepatitis B receive treatment. These statistics are alarming and steps should be taken to better educate the public about the warning signs, and treatment options, of hepatitis B." 
   Senator Santorum was an original cosponsor of a Senate resolution designating the week of May 9th, 2005 as "National Hepatitis B Awareness Week."
  If enacted, the National Hepatitis B Act would develop a national plan for prevention, control, and medical management. This measure would also help support hepatitis B coordinators in state, local and tribal health departments and expand education and awareness programs, including public awareness campaigns, and community outreach activities. Under this measure, support for epidemiological surveillance of chronic hepatitis B infection would be increased. 
   Hepatitis B disproportionately affects Asian-Americans and Pacific Islanders, while African-American teenagers are 3 to 4 times more likely than Caucasians to have a hepatitis B infection. According to the 2000 Census, over 248,000 Asian-Americans live in Pennsylvania, and close to 1.3 million African-Americans live in Pennsylvania. In addition to increasing federal funding for research, including community-based research on best practices for prevention, and development of more effective treatments for liver cancer caused by hepatitis B, this bill would also prioritize underserved and disproportionately affected populations that are chronically infected with hepatitis B. 
   "The Hepatitis B Foundation greatly appreciates the efforts of Senators Rick Santorum (R-PA) and Diane Feinstein (D-CA) for introducing the hepatitis B bill in the Senate," said Timothy Block, Ph.D., President, Hepatitis B Foundation, located in Doylestown, PA. "This bill will replicate the bipartisan effort that was introduced by Congressmen Charlie Dent (R-PA) and Michael Honda (D-CA) in December 2005, H.R. 4550. This important legislation will be another great step forward in making sure that these Americans will not B forgotten."
 
 