SEN. SANTORUM DELIVERS OPENING REMARKS AT SPRING STATEWIDE CONFERENCE
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the United States Senate Agriculture Subcommittee on Research, Nutrition, and General Legislation, today delivered the opening remarks at the spring statewide conference, "Strengthening the Food Resource Safety Net" sponsored by the Pennsylvania Hunger Action Center and the Pennsylvania Nutrition Education Network.  
   "As chair of the Senate Agriculture Subcommittee on Research, Nutrition and General Legislation, Senator Santorum is in a position of leadership on national nutrition policy. We appreciate the way he has exercised his role to support the Commodity Supplemental Food Program, farm-to-school partnerships and the Fruit and Vegetable Pilot. Most importantly, during the recent budget reconciliation debates, Senator Santorum helped persuade the Committee to shield the Food Stamp Program from funding cuts," said Berry Friesen, Executive Director of the Pennsylvania Hunger Action Center. 
   Senator Santorum has been an advocate of funding for the federal Commodity Supplemental Food Program (CSFP). The CSFP is a vital nutrition program for low-income seniors, mothers, and children; it is a complement to the Food Stamp Program and Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC). Recently, the Senator also worked to protect the Food Stamp Program from cuts when the Deficit Reduction Act was being considered. 
   "Funding and support for organizations, like those many of you here today represent, has been and continues to be an important priority for me. I have met with some of you and have visited your organizations, and I have seen first-hand the work you are doing in our communities. You are providing an indispensable service, those of us who are fortunate to have enough to eat and enough to feed our children have a responsibility to help provide for those who do not," said Senator Santorum. 
   Senator Santorum supports funding for the CSFP program and last month joined his colleagues in sending a letter to the Senate Appropriations Committee to urge funding in Fiscal Year 2007. Also this year, Senator Santorum and several of his colleagues joined in a bipartisan letter to the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), Mike Johanns. The letter expressed concerns regarding the reduction of 48,000 cases from the CSFP and urged USDA to utilize past and current inventories to serve the full Fiscal Year 2006 caseload. 
   Also, as a member of the U.S. Senate Finance Committee and Chairman of the Subcommittee on Social Security and Family Policy, Senator Santorum has been a leader in the Senate, working in a bipartisan fashion on legislation that would provide incentives for charitable giving so charities can better meet the numerous needs in our nation's communities. 
   In December of last year charitable giving provisions were included in the Tax Relief Act of 2005 (S. 2020); the charitable giving provisions included are part of Senator Santorum's CARE Act (S. 1780), and include incentives for an estimated $2 billion worth of food donations from farmers, restaurants, and corporations to help those in need. America's Second Harvest estimates that this is the equivalent of 878 million meals for hungry Americans over 10 years. This incentive is strongly supported by food banks, farm bureaus, and hunger advocacy groups throughout the country.
 
 