SEN. SANTORUM ADDRESSES PENNSYLVANIA COUNTY COMMISSIONERS FALL CONFERENCE
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today spoke at the County Commissioners Association of Pennsylvania (CCAP) fall conference. The CCAP consists of all of Pennsylvania's elected County Commissioners; Washington County Commissioner Bracken Burns introduced Sen. Santorum.  
   Since his election to the United States Senate in 1994, Senator Santorum has traveled to each of Pennsylvania's sixty-seven counties every year. Recently, Senator Santorum has focused much of his time in Pennsylvania discussing issues including the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program, long-term care, the new Medicare Prescription Drug Coverage, the Social Security Guarantee Act of 2005, and the Safe, Accountable, Flexible and Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (SAFETEA-LU). 
   "It is an honor for me to represent our state in the United States Senate. I have enjoyed the opportunity to travel to all sixty-seven counties each year and hear the concerns of constituents and take them back to Washington, DC," said Senator Santorum. "CDBG and the SAFETEA-LU bill have been crucial to the continued economic growth and development of our communities and counties. Through my leadership position in the Senate, I have worked hard with my colleague, Arlen Specter, in the Senate and my colleagues in the House of Representatives to make sure that Pennsylvania's voice is heard and fairly represented." 
   Senator Santorum has worked for Pennsylvania communities by fighting against proposed cuts in CDBG funding which is critical to fighting poverty and spurring economic growth. In fiscal year 2005 Pennsylvania received $55.485 million in CDBG funding, benefiting cities like Reading that will be able to leverage CDBG funds for federally-guaranteed loans large enough to pursue significant economic revitalization projects and provide affordable housing to low- and moderate- income Pennsylvanians. 
   The Senate passed and President Bush recently signed the SAFETEA-LU bill, which also provides a federal funding formula on which states receive a return on money paid in federal gasoline taxes. 
   "Through my leadership position as Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, I fought to keep Pennsylvania a donee state under the bill's formula, which means the Commonwealth will receive more from the Highway Trust Fund than it contributes," said Senator Santorum. "The previous version of the bill, considered in the 108th Congress, made Pennsylvania a donor state with a rate of return of $.97 for every dollar it paid into the fund. The SAFETEA-LU bill I helped to pass ensures our state will never receive less than $1.13 for every dollar contributed."
   Contact: Robert Traynham, 202/224-0610.
 
 