SEN. SANTORUM APPLAUDS APPROVAL OF FUNDING TO PRESERVE OIL REGION
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, announced the establishment of the Oil Region National Heritage Area, which was included as a portion of the Fiscal Year 2005 Omnibus Appropriations Bill. Sen. Santorum introduced legislation in April 2003 to designate the region as a national heritage area. Rep. John Peterson (R-5-PA) introduced the companion bill in the House.  
   The Oil Region National Heritage Area Act establishes the Oil Region located in northwestern Pennsylvania as a National Heritage Area and authorizes funding to be used to examine the industrial, engineering, and architectural heritage of the area and highlight the accomplishments of the Pennsylvania oil industry. 
   "This is a region with tremendous physical and natural resources with state, national, and international significance," Senator Santorum said. "The unspoiled rural character of the Oil Region serves as an historical landmark, while providing many natural and recreational resources, and scenic vistas. With this legislation, we are taking important measures to protect and promote this area of northwestern Pennsylvania and its historical significance for future generations." 
   Known as the "valley that changed the world," the Oil Region initiated the United States oil boom when Colonel Edwin Drake drilled the world's first successful oil well there in 1859 and fueled the beginning of the American Industrial Revolution. The region is also home to the world's oldest continuously producing oil well, the McClintock No. 1, first drilled in 1861. The Oil Region is comprised of 6 national historic districts and 17 separate National Register sites located in Emlenton, Franklin, Oil City, and Titusville, Pennsylvania. 
   The Fiscal Year 2005 Omnibus Appropriations Bill was passed by the Senate on November 20, 2004 and is awaiting the President's signature.
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 