SEN. SANTORUM HOLDS PRESS CONFERENCE WITH FORMER PRESIDENT OF POLAND
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, held a press conference today following a meeting with Lech Walesa, former President of Poland and representatives of the Polish American community.  
   Santorum and Walesa met to discuss the Senator's legislation that he introduced today which designates Poland as a program country under the visa waiver program established under Section 217 of the Immigration and Nationality Act. The Secretary of Homeland Security and Secretary of State administer the visa waiver program, which allows citizens from 27 countries, including France and Germany, to visit the United States as tourists without visas. 
   There are nearly nine million Americans of Polish ancestry currently living in the United States. This program will allow the families of Polish Americans to travel to the United States to attend weddings, funerals and other special occasions, without the delay of waiting for a visa. 
   "We are grateful to our Polish friends for being a staunch twenty-first century ally to the United States and for the contributions they have made to the cultural and historical fabric of our country," said Santorum. "I am confident that my colleagues in the Senate will support this legislation and acknowledge Poland's commitment to global security, promotion of free markets, constitutional democracy, and religious tolerance." 
   Santorum and Walesa were also joined by Rick Pierchalski, a National Director of The Polish American Congress; Les Kuczynski, Executive Director of The Polish American Congress; Michael Dawida, former Pennsylvania State Senator and former Allegheny County Commissioner; Piotr Erenfeicht, First Secretary, Polish Embassy; and John Lenczowski, State Department Advisor to former President Reagan. 
   Senator Barbara Mikulski (D-MD) is an original co-sponsor of this legislation.
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 