SEN. SANTORUM CONTINUES FUNDING PLEDGE TO PENNSYLVANIA HOUSING AUTHORITY LEADERS IN PITTSBURGH
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), a member of U.S. Senate Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs Committee, today addressed a statewide affordable housing summit co-hosted by the Housing Authority of the City of Pittsburgh, the Allegheny County Housing Authority and the Philadelphia Housing Authority.  
   Senator Santorum has supported affordable housing for Pennsylvanians and has worked on issues important to housing authorities throughout the state, including sufficient funding and local control for the Public Housing Operating Fund, a vital source of funding for housing authorities state-wide. Over this past year, Senator Santorum pushed for adequate funding for the Public Housing Operating Fund and against overly specific guidance from HUD on how housing authorities are to administer their housing sites. Implementation of the current HUD guidance has the potential to negatively impact many of Pennsylvania's housing authorities. 
   "Under the new guidance, Pennsylvania housing authorities stand to lose tens of millions of dollars in federal assistance as well as the ability to make HUD's desired changes in a way that makes sense locally," said Senator Santorum. "In the past, Congress has established a trend of deregulation and greater local control for housing authorities. HUD should work with Congress to provide housing authorities greater flexibility in serving their residents based on local needs, not one size fits all Washington programs." 
   "The Senator is aware of the disproportionate housing cuts to Pennsylvania, and the increase in HUD funding to the South and Southwest, and he is committed to doing something about it. We appreciate the Senator's efforts to thwart the unprecedented attack on public housing programs affecting the elderly, the disabled and the poor," said Frank Aggazio, Executive Director of Allegheny County Housing Authority. 
   Earlier this year, Senator Santorum cosponsored a bill to reauthorize HOPE VI - a program providing needed funds for revitalizing public housing. This bill will promote sustainable connections between the revitalization of public housing and improvement of local schools, bettering the living environment for public housing residents by replacing severely distressed public housing sites, providing housing that will avoid or decrease the concentration of very low-income families, and building sustainable communities. 
   In June 2006, Senator Santorum cosponsored bipartisan legislation that would expand and make permanent the Moving to Work (MTW) program - a HUD program that allows public housing authorities (PHAs) to develop local approaches to encourage self-sufficiency and boost housing choices for low-income families. The Moving to Work Charter Program Act of 2006, introduced by Senator John Sununu (R-NH), would permanently establish the MTW program, expanding it to allow 250 PHAs nationwide to participate. 
   The MTW program has been successful in giving PHAs flexibility in encouraging employment and homeownership; establishing reasonable rent policies; providing incentives to families with children for participation in job training, educational programs, or programs that assist people to obtain employment and become economically self-sufficient; and enabling PHAs to focus on their core housing mission by eliminating burdensome reporting requirements. 
   The Moving to Work Charter Program Act of 2006 has been endorsed by the Public Housing Authorities Directors Association, the Council of Large Public Housing Authorities, and the National Association of Housing and Redevelopment Officials.
 
 