SENS. SANTORUM, SPECTER ANNOUNCE FEDERAL FUNDING FOR PENNSYLVANIA AGRICULTURAL PROJECTS
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), a member of Senate Agriculture Committee, and Sen. Arlen Specter (R-PA), a senior member of the U.S. Senate Appropriations Committee, today announced that Congress approved federal funding for agricultural projects in Pennsylvania, contained in the Fiscal Year (FY) 2007 Agriculture Appropriations bill. 
   "I am pleased that these important projects have been approved by Congress," said Senator Santorum. "As a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, I understand the importance of ensuring sufficient funding for these projects, which will enable significant advances in Pennsylvania agriculture." 
   "These programs will strengthen the state's agricultural industry by developing innovative technologies to improve production and management of Pennsylvania's farms," Senator Specter said. "I applaud my Congressional colleagues for funding these agricultural projects that are fundamental to keeping Pennsylvania's economy strong."  
   The House of Representatives approved the FY07 Agriculture Appropriations bill on May 23, 2006 and the Senate Appropriations Committee approved the legislation yesterday. 
   The following Pennsylvania projects have been approved by the committee: 
   $1 million to the Agriculture Research Service for the study of Biomedical Materials in plants. This funding will allow for the continued research at Thomas Jefferson University and elsewhere of tobacco and other plants as a medium to produce vaccines and other biomedical products for the prevention of many human and animal diseases. This technology has the potential to shift tobacco production to a vehicle for preventing, curing, and treating viruses and cancers in place of smoking, chewing, and other current uses. (Philadelphia County) 
   $688,000 for the Milk and Dairy Safety and Quality Research program at Penn State University. This funding will help researchers at Penn State University better understand the microbiology of the Listeria organism and make progress in determining the process and handling parameters that will ensure a safe milk supply. (Centre County) 
   $662,500 for Eastern Regional Research Center Hides and Leather Research conducted by the United States Department of Agriculture. The research, conducted at the Eastern Regional Research Center in Wyndmoor, provides the hides and leather industry with cost-effective and environmentally safe tanning processes which will enhance U.S. producers' competitiveness in world markets. (Montgomery County) 
   $495,000 for Dairy Farming Management and Profitability projects at Penn State University. This funding will benefit projects focusing on the economic and social dimensions of dairy farming, risk analysis, the economic impact of implementing voluntary animal health programs, development management, and the adoption of technology, in an attempt to help farmers increase their profitability. (Centre County) 
   $494,248 for Pasture Systems and Watershed Management at the Pennsylvania State University to conduct research on pasture management, grassland ecology, water quality, and nutrient management. With this funding, the Pasture Systems and Watershed Management Research Laboratory will evaluate and develop improved management systems for perennial grass and legumes in sustainable bioenergy/bioproduct crop production systems. (Centre County) 
   $330,000 for Agricultural Entrepreneurial Alternatives for Small Farmers at Penn State University. This program delivers farm and community level educational programs and assistance. Farm level programs focus on developing alternative enterprise opportunities, generating business and marketing plans and providing market research and feasibility studies. Community level programs focus on assessing and strengthening the local agricultural business climate, and developing regional marketing alliances. (Centre County) 
   $348,000 for Penn State University's Improved Dairy On-Farm Management Practices program. Last year, Congress provided funding for work done in Pennsylvania to research new and improved farm management practices. Innovative research directed at the farm level is essential to sustain the nation's dairy industry. This year's funding provides for further research in areas such as manure management techniques, odor abatement, induced lactation and animal health program management improvements. (Centre County) 
    $218,000 for the Cheyney University of Pennsylvania to conduct important research in urban aquaculture process and technology. The focus of this research will be on producing, processing, packaging and distributing fish in an urban setting. This project has the potential to provide development opportunities in inner-cities throughout the country. Cheyney University will partner with the University of Pennsylvania and the U.S. Department of Commerce's Minority Business Development Agency in this endeavor. (Delaware County) 
   $188,000 for the Rodale Institute. Penn State University and the Rodale Institute have renewed their partnership to conduct a joint program for Sustainable Agriculture Research. This project is being submitted by the Rodale Institute and continues to be an area of priority for the College.
   The program will be a collaboration of replicated research trials that investigate sustainable field crop production. Projects will be conducted at Penn State experiment station research farms, the Rodale Institute, and in farmers' fields focused on sustainable field crop production. (Centre County) 
   $100,000 for the Research Institute for Family Health and Wellness at Marywood University. The establishment of this institute will improve family health in a three-county area - Lackawanna, Luzerne and Wyoming. Marywood University will focus on nutrition and obesity; fitness; tobacco use; geriatric-related concerns; chronic diseases; and food safety. (Lackawanna County) 
   $100,000 for the Center for Dairy Excellence at the Pennsylvania Department of Agriculture. The Center provides coordination of the direction, leadership and resources to the PA dairy industry, and seeks to strengthen relationships and programming with other states in the Northeast. An additional component will be the expansion of the very successful Dairy Profit Team program to teach additional dairy producers how to coordinate and use a team of industry professionals to provide management assistance, helping them improve their profitability and strengthen the industry, and positively impact rural Pennsylvania. Also, this project will also include expansion of the programs, activities and support of the PA Dairy Task Force that focuses on projects that provide economic development and growth of the dairy industry, improved business management skills and business models, strategic use of the on-farm industry professionals, information resources, and general guidance and goals to provide direction for the industry. 
   $10 million for Johne's Disease research. Johne's disease is a contagious, chronic, and usually fatal infection that affects primarily the small intestine of ruminants. All ruminants are susceptible to this worldwide disease. 
   $2.203 million for Plum Pox research. The Plum Pox virus is the most serious disease of stone fruits, making the fruit unmarketable and causing tree decline and death. The first discovery of the disease in the United States was made in Adams County, Pennsylvania. Because the disease can easily be transmitted by insects and infected budwood, the presence of the plum pox virus endangers the entire United States stone fruit industry. 
   $2.079 million for Viticulture Consortium to provide for grape and wine research in Pennsylvania, New York, and California. The purpose of the consortium is to assist grape producers in improving yields, reducing production costs, and increasing product. 
    $10 million for the Specialty Crop Block Grant program to allow state departments of agriculture to fund research projects that are critical to the development of the specialty crop industry. 
   The conference report urges consideration of the following projects for funding through Rural Development grant programs: 
   Armstrong County Planning & Development - Kittanning Campus Reuse Project. Armstrong County is seeking funding for the rehabilitation of the site where Indiana University of Pennsylvania formerly operated its Kittanning branch campus. 
   Northwest Commission - Multi-Region Wireless Infrastructure Project. The Northwest Commission plans to conduct an engineering assessment of an eleven county area in rural Pennsylvania to identify current locations and capabilities of county and local government communications towers; specify optimal location for new and revamped towers; and upgrade Mercer County's Public Safety computer system. 
   Borough of Lewistown - Wastewater Biosolids Anaerobic Digestion Project. This project will enable reliable processing of the biosolid residuals from wastewater treatment. The digestion modifications will convert to high rate anaerobic digestion that will generate a valuable methane biogas, which will operate the process and heat the Lewistown Waste Water Treatment Facility. 
   Three Rivers Wet Weather Demonstration Program (3RWWDP). Consent orders require costly assessment and monitoring activities along with water collection system repairs. 3RWWDP will conduct data collection and assessment activities will lead to the development of a long-term wet weather control plan for these critical capital investment projects.
 
 