SEN. SANTORUM COMMENTS ON COMBATING DOMESTIC, GLOBAL HIV-AIDS CRISIS
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today released the following statement on continued efforts to combat HIV/AIDS within the United States and around the world:  
   "Sadly, the pandemic of HIV/AIDS affects people within the United States and also reaches across the globe, causing incomprehensible pain and suffering. President Bush and leaders of the U.S. House and Senate have led the way in developing a comprehensive strategy to tackle this deadly disease. 
   "America's commitment to combating this disease was highlighted by President Bush in his State of the Union Address in 2003. In response to this vision, Congress passed, and the President signed, the Global HIV/AIDS bill, authorizing $15 billion over five years for treatment and prevention programs. 
   "Congress also responded by appropriating considerable funds during Fiscal Year 2004 for both our bilateral and multilateral investments in responding to HIV/AIDS. This year, I offered an amendment to the Congressional Budget Resolution for Fiscal Year 2005 reaffirming the commitment of Congress to contribute $1 in federal funding to the Global Fund for every $2 contributed by other sources. 
   "In addition, I co-signed a letter with Senators Chuck Hagel and Richard Lugar that was sent to Senator Ted Stevens, Chairman of the Committee on Appropriations, urging that the U.S. contribute $550 million to the Global Fund for FY05. The Global Fund is an integral component of the United States' five-year plan to combat the HIV/AIDS epidemic, and other diseases. 
   "Through the efforts of faith-based and community organizations, and government programs such as the AIDS Drug Assistance Program (ADAP), and the Ryan White Care Act, federal assistance is available to patients who are most in need assistance. Continued funding for efforts like these will help reach more individuals - as well as their families - who are suffering from HIV/AIDS. 
   "Today in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, President Bush reaffirmed his commitment to fight against HIV/AIDS both within the United States and across the globe. I will continue to support legislation that promotes education, research, prevention and treatments to help those living with HIV/AIDS in the United States and around the world."
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 