SEN. SANTORUM SPEAKS TO PENNSYLVANIA VETERANS AT STATEWIDE VFW CONVENTION IN PITTSBURGH
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), today addressed the 87th Annual State Convention of the Department of Pennsylvania Veterans of Foreign Wars.  
   "Veterans are a special group of men and women who have made a number of sacrifices to protect the American way of life and I strongly believe that Congress has an obligation to protect the interests of our nation's veterans. I am proud to say that throughout my tenure in the Senate, the veterans' health care budget has increased by eighty-six percent," said Senator Santorum. 
   In 2005 Senator Santorum introduced an amendment to add $1.5 billion in "emergency funding" for Fiscal Year 2005 to address the emergency financial needs facing the VA. President Bush signed this legislation into law in August 2005. More recently he expressed outrage regarding the breach of security that led to millions of veterans at risk of identity theft. 
   "With more than 1.2 million veterans living in Pennsylvania, and millions more throughout our nation, I remain committed to ensuring that our veterans receive high quality medical care and benefits; providing adequate and accessible VA facilities; and recognizing the sacrifices of our living and fallen veterans," said Senator Santorum. 
   Senator Santorum has also supported S.J.Res.12, an amendment to prohibit the physical desecration of the United States flag. Next week, the Senate is expected to debate the merits of this resolution; as a proposal to amend the constitution, sixty-six Senators will have to vote in favor of the amendment. In 2000 when a similar amendment was brought to the floor of the Senate for a vote, only sixty-three Senators voted in favor of the amendment, and it failed. Senator Santorum is hopeful that this time they will have the votes they need to pass this honorable amendment will pass overwhelmingly. 
   "The American flag is the living symbol of our nation. It represents our liberties, our republican form of government, our history and our people and stands for all of us, beyond any differences," said Senator Santorum.
 
 