SEN. SANTORUM IN ALLEGHENY, JEFFERSON, CLEARFIELD COUNTIES
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, made a three county stop today. He was in Duquesne, Allegheny County; Brookville, Jefferson County; and DuBois, Clearfield County.
   In Duquesne, Senator Santorum dropped off canned goods and met with volunteers and organizers at the Greater Pittsburgh Community Food Bank. The organizers of the Food Bank have expressed concerns over federal support for nutrition programs. The Food Bank receives some funding through the federal Commodity Supplemental Food Program (CSFP). The CSFP is a vital nutrition program for low-income seniors, mothers, and children; it is a complement to the Food Stamp Program and Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC). 
   "Last year, Senator Santorum's efforts helped to ensure that the federal Food Stamp Program remained in tact as a federal program without dropping the benefit to over 300,000 people in need as was proposed as a part of the budget reconciliation process. We again face this possibility with the proposed 2007 budget along with the proposed zeroing out of the Commodity Supplemental Food Program, currently serving more than 470,000 people in need, mostly our low-income seniors, across the country. We are delighted that Senator Santorum is attentive to the plight of our most vulnerable neighbors," said Joyce Rothermel, Chief Executive Officer, Greater Pittsburgh Community Food Bank.
   Senator Santorum supports funding for the program and will join his colleagues in sending a letter to the Senate Appropriations Committee to urge funding in Fiscal Year 2007. Recently, on March 16, Senator Santorum and several of his colleagues joined in a bipartisan letter to the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Agriculture, Mike Johanns. The letter expressed concerns regarding the reductions of 48,000 cases from the CSFP and urged USDA to utilize past and current inventories to serve the full Fiscal Year 2006 caseload.
   "The Greater Pittsburgh Community Food Bank is a great organization, providing meals to those in need and serving the community through the help of volunteers. It is important to continue federal support of programs like the Food Bank and also to encourage all Pennsylvanians to support charitable organizations that seek to help those in need," said Senator Santorum.
   As a member of the U.S. Senate Finance Committee and Chairman of the Subcommittee on Social Security and Family Policy, Senator Santorum has been a leader in the Senate, working in a bipartisan fashion on legislation that would provide incentives for charitable giving so charities can better meet the numerous needs in our nation's communities.
   In December of last year charitable giving provisions were included in the Tax Relief Act of 2005 (S. 2020); the charitable giving provisions included are part of Senator Santorum's CARE Act (S. 1780), and include incentives for an estimated $2 billion worth of food donations from farmers, restaurants, and corporations to help those in need. America's Second Harvest estimates that this is the equivalent of 878 million meals for hungry Americans over 10 years. This incentive is strongly supported by food banks, farm bureaus, and hunger advocacy groups around the country.
   While in Jefferson County, Senator Santorum met with employees and toured the Beverage-Air Fabrication and Assembly Plant in Brookville. The Beverage-Air plant is a leading manufacturer of commercial refrigeration equipment for the foodservice and soft drink bottling markets, employing approximately 400 Pennsylvanians. They have recently moved additional assembly lines to this plant from South Carolina and are known among their customers as a plant that produces high quality products.
   "Beverage-Air is a success story in Jefferson County; the plant in Brookville has been a source of job creation, economic growth and local revenue. The plant has a history of producing quality products and providing excellent benefits for employees, including a continuing education program," said Senator Santorum.
   Senator Santorum highlighted the contributions the company is making to the overall U.S. economic growth. Statistics released on March 10, 2006 show that the United States economy is continuing to grow.
   "In 2003 I supported the Jobs and Growth Act, this tax relief we passed has stimulated growth; it has actually resulted in increased tax revenue for the federal government in addition to decreasing the burden on small businesses and American families. Extending the tax relief and better controlling our spending means more jobs, more income, and a robust economy from which all Americans can benefit," said Senator Santorum. "The economy is strong and continues to grow stronger each month. I will continue to pass legislation that will lead the nation towards a stronger and more stable economy."
   Earlier this year the national unemployment rate was at the lowest it has been since 2001, at 4.7 percent. Pennsylvania also received good news regarding the employment situation in the Commonwealth -- 4,700 jobs were created in the month of January and the unemployment rate decreased from 4.7 percent to 4.3 percent.
   Later, in DuBois, Clearfield County Senator Santorum attended and spoke at the West Central Pennsylvania Health Care Network meeting. The meeting is a collaboration of DuBois Regional Medical Center, Brookville Hospital, Clearfield Hospital, Elk Regional Health Center and Punxsutawney Area Hospital. These hospitals are proposing to form a Health Information Technology (HIT) network, which would reduce health system errors, reduce medical errors, and increase the quality of patient care for rural hospitals.
   "Since being elected to the Senate in 1994, I have traveled to all sixty-seven counties each year and many of those visits have included meetings with rural health care providers throughout Pennsylvania. I have learned first-hand the struggles they face; one of the larger obstacles for rural hospitals is implementing electronic medical records and information systems," said Senator Santorum. "I have supported federal initiatives to spur the development and implementation of electronic medical record systems, which have the potential of greatly improving quality of care and significantly reducing overall healthcare costs, two very important healthcare goals."
 
 