SEN. SANTORUM IN PHILADELPHIA PROMOTING SAVINGS ACCOUNTS FOR CHILDREN
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today was joined by Sen. Jon Corzine (D-NJ) in Philadelphia at the Masterman Laboratory and Demonstration School to discuss establishing and promoting savings accounts for children with students and community members.  
   "I am pleased to have this opportunity to join Senator Corzine to discuss this important legislation which will equip families with the resources they need to move one step closer to living in financial security," said Santorum. "This legislation will go a long way in helping our nation's children to understand the importance of saving and develop financial skills so they can appreciate the value of building assets over the long term." 
   "Our proposal will promote savings, enhance financial literacy and help realize the American ideal of equal opportunity,'' Senator Corzine added. "For the first time, every child will have a meaningful incentive to learn the basics of investing because he or she will have real resources to invest. And, for the first time, all American children will grow up knowing that when they reach adulthood they will have the ability to create a real future for themselves.'' 
   Senators Santorum and Corzine highlighted their bipartisan legislation to expand opportunities for young adults, encourage savings, and promote financial literacy by establishing investment accounts, known as KIDS Accounts, for every child in America. The America Saving for Personal Investment, Retirement, and Education (ASPIRE) Act will provide a KIDS Account for every newborn child. Beginning in 2006, each account will be endowed with a one-time $500 contribution. Children living in households earning below the national median income will be eligible for a supplemental contribution of up to $500 at birth, as well as the opportunity to earn $500 per year in matching funds for amounts saved in the account. 
   Families and others will be allowed to contribute up to $1,000 (after-tax) into these KIDS Accounts annually. When children turn 18 years old, they will have the ability to make withdrawals without penalty to pay for college or to purchase their first home. 
   If passed, the KIDS Account Fund will be established within the Treasury and will be governed by a Board of Directors similar in structure to the Board that oversees the Thrift Savings Plan (TSP), the retirement program for federal employees. Account holders will be able to keep their accounts with this fund or transfer them to private financial service providers after their 18th birthday.
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 