SEN. SANTORUM RECOGNIZED BY NORTHEAST PENNSYLVANIA MANUFACTURERS AND EMPLOYERS ASSOCIATION IN SCHUYLKILL COUNTY
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, received a national award from the Northeast Pennsylvania Manufacturers and Employers today in Schuylkill County.  
   Senator Santorum was awarded the "National Association of Manufacturers Award for Manufacturing Legislative Excellence" in recognition of his 100 percent pro-manufacturing voting record. This national award is given by the National Association of Manufacturers, the parent organization of the Northeast Pennsylvania Manufacturers and Employers Association, which is a private, non-profit, membership-based organization serving more than 250 companies in Carbon, Lackawanna, Luzerne, Northumberland and Schuylkill Counties. 
   "I am honored to receive this award from the Northeast Pennsylvania Manufacturers and Employers Association. Pennsylvania's manufacturers are important to the economy of our Commonwealth," said Senator Santorum. "One of my top priorities is ensuring that Pennsylvania's economy remains strong and continues to grow, which is why I will continue to support measures that are beneficial to manufacturers in Pennsylvania." 
   "The fact that Senator Santorum has a 100 percent perfect voting record on these issues speaks volumes about his dedication and commitment to the manufacturing companies of Pennsylvania and the nation," said Northeast Pennsylvania Manufacturers and Employers Association Acting Chairman David Reppert, Inter Metro Industries of Wilkes-Barre. "All manufacturing companies, including my employer, are deeply appreciative of Senator Santorum's support." 
   "American companies need legislative protection from unfair overseas competition because many foreign companies don't have to follow all the rules and regulations that American companies do, making it cheaper for those companies to do business," said Martha Herron, Secretary of the Northeast Pennsylvania Manufacturers and Employers Association said. "Legislators such as Senator Santorum do everything they can to support American manufacturers and help keep good-paying jobs in the United States." 
   "This award is an acknowledgement of a job well done. It congratulates Senator Santorum for his pro-manufacturing, pro-growth agenda, and encourages other senators and representatives to more closely examine their own voting records," said Darlene Robbins, President, Northeast Pennsylvania Manufacturers and Employers Association.
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 