SEN. SANTORUM DISCUSSES MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG COVERAGE WITH CONSTITUENTS
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today held an information and registration seminar for Medicare prescription drug coverage. The forum was held at the Jewish Association on Aging in Pittsburgh and included a presentation by Landmark Home Health about the various drug plan options that are available to Pennsylvania's seniors.  
   "Today's town hall meeting is a wonderful opportunity to discuss with my constituents the new Medicare drug coverage. In response to concerns I have heard from my constituents, I ensured that helpful resources would be on hand at this event to answer questions about the new drug coverage. Going forward, the concerns I have heard today will be essential as I continue to work to strengthen and improve the Medicare program for Pennsylvania's seniors," said Senator Santorum. 
   In 2003, Congress passed the Medicare Modernization Act, which Senator Santorum supported, greatly improving the overall care of America's seniors through the Medicare program by emphasizing preventive measures, including affordable Medicare drug coverage. Seniors can enroll in Medicare with the opportunity to choose from several prescription drug plans in their area. Seniors that enroll in a new drug plan by December 31st will enjoy prescription drug coverage beginning January 1, 2006. Enrollment can be done over the phone, online or at community enrollment events that will take place in the weeks ahead. 
   "Whether or not a senior currently has high drug costs, they should consider enrolling in the new Medicare drug coverage, because they will gain peace of mind knowing that their health and their pocketbooks are protected against such costs from the moment they enroll. I encourage all seniors, and their friends and family members helping them, to carefully consider the various options so they can make an informed choice in order to ensure that the plan they select will best meet their healthcare needs," said Senator Santorum. 
   Seniors with limited income and resources may qualify for extra help for Medicare drug coverage. Those who qualify for extra help can expect to pay little or no premium, deductibles, or co-payments. If a senior believes they may be eligible for extra help and has not yet been in contact with the Social Security Administration, they should immediately do so. 
   "One of my greatest responsibilities as a United States Senator is advocating on behalf of Pennsylvania's seniors to protect their health so they can age with the comfort and dignity they deserve. I was proud to support the Medicare Modernization Act and I am committed to ensuring that Pennsylvanians are provided with a smooth transition if they choose to enroll in a new plan that will protect their health and save them money on prescription drugs," said Senator Santorum. 
   For questions about the coverage, call 1-800-MEDICARE (1-800-633-4227), or visit www.Medicare.gov.
   Contact: Robert Traynham, 202/224-0610.
 
 