SENS. SANTORUM, SPECTER ANNOUNCE CONGRESSIONAL APPROVAL OF CENTRAL PENNSYLVANIA TRANSPORTATION PROJECTS
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, and Sen. Arlen Specter (R-PA), a senior member of the U.S. Senate Appropriations Committee, announced that the Senate has passed the Fiscal Year 2005 Omnibus Appropriations bill, which provides funding for several transportation projects in central Pennsylvania.  
   "I am pleased that Congress has approved funding to expand and improve our roadways and mass transit infrastructure in central Pennsylvania," Senator Santorum said. "It is important that Pennsylvania continuously maintain and modernize transportation throughout the Commonwealth in order to ensure the safe travel of its citizens, create more efficient means of transportation, and sustain a robust economy." 
   "It's heartening to see my colleagues recognize the importance of these transportation projects, which are vital to driving local economies in central Pennsylvania," Sen. Specter said. 
   The Fiscal Year 2005 Omnibus Appropriations Bill was passed by the Senate on November 20, 2004 and is pending final approval by the House of Representatives, followed by the President's signature. 
   These projects include: 
   * $2 million for the Capital Area Transit/Corridor One project. This funding will provide for final design and construction of a 30-mile regional light rail system in the Harrisburg metropolitan area. The first segment of this rail line will extend from West Mechanicsburg to Harrisburg and from Harrisburg to Elizabethtown. 
   * $1 million for the Campbelltown Connector and U.S. 322 Improvement Project to construct a new road that will connect existing Forge Road, Palmyra Road and Lingle Avenue just north of existing U.S. Route 322. The project will provide additional east-west connectivity in South Londonberry Township, relieve traffic congestion on U.S. Route 322 in Campbelltown, increase public safety and emergency vehicle access, and provide access to residential development within the project corridor.
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 