SENS. SANTORUM, SPECTER ANNOUNCE CONGRESSIONAL APPROVAL OF NORTHEASTERN PENNSYLVANIA TRANSPORTATION PROJECTS
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, and Sen. Arlen Specter (R-PA), a senior member of the U.S. Senate Appropriations Committee, announced that the Senate has passed the Fiscal Year 2005 Omnibus Appropriations bill, which provides funding for several transportation projects in northeastern Pennsylvania.  
   "I am pleased that Congress has approved funding to expand and improve our roadways and mass transit infrastructure in northeastern Pennsylvania," Senator Santorum said. "It is important that Pennsylvania continuously maintain and modernize transportation throughout the Commonwealth in order to ensure the safe travel of its citizens, create more efficient means of transportation, and sustain a robust economy." 
   "It's heartening to see my colleagues recognize the importance of these transportation projects, which are vital to driving local economies in northeastern Pennsylvania," Sen. Specter said. 
   The Fiscal Year 2005 Omnibus Appropriations Bill was passed by the Senate on November 20, 2004 and is pending final approval by the House of Representatives, followed by the President's signature. 
   These projects include: 
   * $5 million for the I-81 Rebuild/Expansion project for preliminary engineering and design for the widening of I-81 from approximately the Davis Street - Montage Mountain Road Interchange, at milepost 181.8, to north of the interchange with the Central Scranton Expressway, at milepost 185.2. I-81 will be widened from two to three through lanes on both the northbound and southbound lanes. 
   * $4 million for the Scranton - New York City Rail Service Project. The funding will be used to begin final engineering on a passenger rail service line between Scranton, Pennsylvania and New York City. When completed, the rail line is expected to carry 684,000 riders annually. The goal of the project is to provide commuters with an alternate source of public transportation into New York City while reducing congestion along I-80.
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 