SEN. SANTORUM DISCUSSES PROGRESS OF DOWNTOWN REVITALIZATION IN WILLIAMSPORT
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today was in Williamsport to discuss progress made on the downtown revitalization project. Sen. Santorum helped begin the revitalization of Williamsport by securing $3.475 million for the Market Street Bridge replacement in the Fiscal Year (FY) 2003 Omnibus Appropriations bill. In FY 2004, Market Street Bridge received $1 million in appropriations and another $1.2 million in federal funding.  
   This project was the catalyst for several other elements of the City's renewal. For the last four years, the area's leading businesses, community organizations, planning bodies, and economic development agencies have cooperatively defined a vision for downtown Williamsport that fully capitalizes upon the Market Street Bridge Replacement Project. 
   "Senator Santorum's leadership was instrumental in securing funding to move forward with improvements to our regional transportation infrastructure," said Williamsport Mayor Mary Wolf. "We are thankful that Senator Santorum has been able to use his leadership and seniority throughout his years in the Senate to deliver for Williamsport." 
   "Williamsport has a great history and I am pleased that I could support the community efforts and vision for future revitalization and development projects," said Senator Santorum. 
   Most recently Senator Santorum worked to secure $1.6 million for the Church Street Transportation Center in the Appropriations Committee-passed FY 2007 Transportation Appropriations bill. Senator Santorum also fought for and secured $3 million for the Williamsport Trade and Transit Center in the SAFETEA-LU (Safe, Accountable, Flexible, and Efficient Transportation Equity Act - A Legacy for Users) bill and $675,000 in the FY 2006 Transportation Appropriations bill. 
   It is expected that the expansion of the Williamsport Trade and Transit Center will capitalize on the increased pedestrian traffic and increase the transit ridership further by bringing additional tourists and County residents to downtown Williamsport, thereby enhancing the quality of life in the City and surrounding Lycoming County communities. 
   "The County of Lycoming is extremely grateful for the leadership of Senator Rick Santorum in attracting federal funding for major projects throughout Lycoming County," said Bill Kelly, Community Development Planner, Lycoming County Planning and Community Development Team.
 
 