SEN. SANTORUM SPEAKS AT STATE ASSOCIATION OF TOWNSHIP SUPERVISORS CONVENTION
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA) today was in Hershey to speak at the 84th Annual State Convention of the Pennsylvania State Association of Township Supervisors. Sen. Santorum has worked for Pennsylvania's local governments on the federal level by fighting against proposed cuts in Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) funding which is critical to fighting poverty and spurring economic growth in both rural and urban Pennsylvania.  
   "We are very grateful that Senator Santorum can take the time to share with our member township officials his thoughts on federal programs that affect the state's municipalities and their constituents," said R. Keith Hite, Executive Director, Pennsylvania State Association of Township Supervisors. 
   Senator Santorum offered an amendment to S.Con.Res. 83, the Fiscal Year 2007 Budget Resolution, which was passed by the Senate March 15, 2006 by a bipartisan vote of 60-38. Senator Santorum's amendment aims to increase funding for the program over the President's proposed level by $1.3 billion, bringing the total CDBG funding included in the budget to $4.3 billion. 
   "I have a solid record on supporting efforts to maintain and increase CDBG funding because as local officials and community leaders, you have a solid record of using this funding for projects that are critical to making Pennsylvania communities a better place for families to live, work, and grow," said Senator Santorum. 
   Since being elected to the United States Senate in 1994, Senator Santorum has traveled to each of Pennsylvania's sixty-seven counties every year. Throughout the past year the Senator has focused much of his time in Pennsylvania discussing the CDBG program, long-term care, the new Medicare Prescription Drug Coverage, the Social Security Guarantee Act, and the Safe, Accountable, Flexible and Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (SAFETEA-LU). 
   "It is an honor for me to represent our state in the United States Senate. I enjoy traveling to all sixty-seven counties each year and listening to the concerns of my constituents," said Senator Santorum. "CDBG and the SAFETEA-LU bill have been crucial to the continued economic growth and development of our communities and counties. Through my leadership position in the Senate, and my work with my colleague, Arlen Specter, I have worked tirelessly to ensure that Pennsylvania's voice is heard and represented."
 
 