SEN. SANTORUM VISITS DELAWARE, MONTGOMERY, CHESTER COUNTIES
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA) today was in Delaware County to join U.S. Attorney Pat Meehan to announce a federal "Weed and Seed" grant for Upper Darby. Weed and Seed is a community-based strategy sponsored by the U.S. Department of Justice and is a comprehensive multi-agency approach to law enforcement, crime prevention, and community revitalization.  
   "I am proud of my support of programs like Weed and Seed that are committed to making Pennsylvania communities a better place to live, work, and raise a family," said Senator Santorum. "I have worked hard in the Senate and have a solid record on helping to secure funding that assists community-based organizations in reaching their full potential to help our neighbors in need." 
   Senator Santorum has supported this funding, and Weed and Seed programs throughout Pennsylvania. Weed and Seed is a two-pronged approach involving "weeding out" violent criminals and drug abusers through the cooperation of law enforcement agencies and prosecutors, followed by collaborative efforts by community-based private organizations to "seed" needed human services, including prevention, intervention, treatment, and neighborhood restoration programs. 
   The Senator was also in Montgomery County today to see the completed Walnut Street arch collapse reconstruction project that was made possible in part by $250,000 in federal funding Senator Santorum secured in the Fiscal Year 2006 Interior Appropriations bill. 
   "The Walnut Street arch collapse reconstruction required $500,000 in assurances before the work could begin. Senator Santorum worked to guarantee $250,000 of the funding to begin the recovery efforts. Today, Senator Santorum continues his vigilant oversight of that significant tax dollar contribution to one of his constituent communities. For all of his efforts, the Borough of Pottstown is grateful," said Ray Bechtel, Borough of Pottstown Projects Coordinator. 
   Finally, the Senator rounded out a day in the Southeast in Kennett Square near Longwood Gardens to present significant funding for major improvements to alleviate traffic congestion at the intersection of Routes 1 and 52, near Longwood Gardens. 
   "I am pleased that together with Representative Pitts we were able to secure $1.16 million in federal funding in the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, and Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (SAFETEA-LU) bill for this project," said Senator Santorum. "This area experiences serious traffic congestion and making roadway improvements will allow for increased traffic flow for locals and allow tourists to enjoy the area to its fullest potential."
 
 