SEN. SANTORUM PRESENTS FUNDING FOR SPORTS MEDICINE RESEARCH AT UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH MEDICAL CENTER
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, was joined by Scott M. Lephart, Ph.D., A.T.C., Director of the Neuromuscular Research Laboratory as he presented a check for $100,000 to the University of Pittsburgh, UPMC Center for Sports Medicine in Allegheny County.  
   Santorum worked to secure the $100,000 funding so that the Laboratory can continue research efforts that examine the risk factors for non-contact anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injuries in female athletes and what methods can be used to reduce the risk of those injuries. The funding was secured through the Department of Health and Human Services as part of the FY 2004 Omnibus Appropriations Bill passed earlier this year. 
   The ACL is the main stabilizing ligament in the knee joint, connecting the femur to the tibia. ACL injuries are common in fast-moving sports that involve sudden starting, stopping, turning, jumping and landing, such as in basketball, soccer and lacrosse. 
   Advancing female ACL injury prevention research has significant women's health care implications as female athletes are up to eight times more likely to injure an ACL than their male counterparts. ACL injury often begins a pattern of premature arthritic changes that can significantly reduce the physical activity of women as they age, thus affecting their ability to have physically fit lifestyles. 
   "I am pleased to deliver this federal funding to the Center for Sports Medicine that will help women lead healthier lives. This funding will support research to determine why female athletes are at a higher risk for ACL injuries than males," said Santorum. 
   "This important and generous award serves female athletes at a critical time as we in the Neuromuscular Research Lab continue our ongoing research agenda, initiated in 1995, aimed at examining the high rate of ACL injuries in female athletes and exploring methods to prevent the injury," said Scott M. Lephart, Ph.D., A.T.C., director of the Neuromuscular Research Laboratory at the UPMC Center for Sports Medicine. 
   The University of Pittsburgh Medical Center (UPMC) is the leading health care system in western Pennsylvania, with 5,000 physicians serving medical facilities in 29 counties. 
   Since it's opening in 1990, UPMC's Neuromuscular Research Laboratory has conducted research in the mechanics of how our muscles work, what causes athletic injuries and how they can be prevented. With an interdisciplinary team of medical doctors, athletic trainers, orthopedic surgeons and physical therapists, the Laboratory also examines how surgery and rehabilitation programs can play a role in reducing and treating injuries, and how these methods can improve an athlete's performance. 
   "The University of Pittsburgh Medical Center provides premier medical care to residents of 29 counties in western Pennsylvania. Dr. Lephart and his team are making great strides in the field of sports medicine to help keep talented athletes healthy and able to perform to the best of their abilities," said Santorum.
   Contact: Kristen Vanderpool, 202/224-0610.
 
 