SEN. SANTORUM IN HARRISBURG TO DISCUSS FUTURE OF SOCIAL SECURITY
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, held a forum today at Messiah Village joining members of the local community for a conversation about saving and strengthening Social Security for future generations. 
   "I am glad to have this opportunity to discuss with the Harrisburg community why our current Social Security system needs to be strengthened for our children and grandchildren," Senator Santorum said. "It's essential for individuals born before 1950 to understand that they will experience no change in their benefits as a result of reform, which includes current retirees, those individuals nearing retirement, and those receiving Social Security Disability Insurance and Supplemental Security Income. However, the longer we wait to put Social Security on secure financial footing, the more we jeopardize the retirement security of our children and grandchildren." 
   The Senator also discussed solutions to the Social Security problem, including voluntary Personal Retirement Accounts (PRA's). 
   "Voluntary Personal Retirement Accounts are part of the solution to fix Social Security permanently and should be incorporated into Social Security now so that they have the time needed to grow and help sustain the overall program. Establishing these accounts now will allow interest to compound over time and offer a substantially greater rate of return - a rate of return that is more than our children and grandchildren can expect from today's current system," said Senator Santorum.
   Julie Stoudt, CFO of Messiah Village, introduced Senator Santorum to the community members gathered at Messiah Village. Stoudt also served as the moderator of the forum. Santorum presented information to the group about Social Security, engaged in discussion, and answered questions from the audience.
   "I want to thank Senator Santorum for hosting a forum on this important topic," said Jim Lockhart, Deputy Commissioner of Social Security. "Social Security's financing challenges are real and must be addressed soon. In his State of the Union Address, President Bush called Social Security 'a symbol of the trust between generations.' Today, I echo the President's and the Senator's call that we join together to strengthen and save this vital program."
   "I am pleased that I was able to openly discuss this important issue with both seniors and younger Pennsylvanians," Senator Santorum said. "We have the opportunity and responsibility to work in a bipartisan fashion to protect current and near retirees, while ensuring sustainable financial security and peace of mind for generations to come. My colleagues and I were elected to solve problems, not pass them on to future generations. It is our responsibility to make the changes necessary to Social Security now, while we have the chance to make public policy for the public good."
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 