SEN. SANTORUM DELIVERS FUNDING TO CARBON COUNTY
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, was in Jim Thorpe today to announce federal funding for the Nesquehoning Borough Authority and the Mauch Chunk Historical Society of Carbon County, Inc.  
   Senator Santorum presented $200,000 in federal funding to the Nesquehoning Borough Authority to replace an almost 100-year-old water line plagued by frequent breaks and damages. The funding is from the Environmental Protection Agency included in the fiscal year 2005 Omnibus Appropriations bill.
   "This federal funding for the Nesquehoning Borough Authority for repairs to a severely damaged waterline, ensuring continued service to the residents of Carbon County. It is vital that we maintain and upgrade our infrastructure in Pennsylvania; old and outdated materials will continue to be a financial burden to the community if they are not dealt with appropriately," said Senator Santorum.
   "We would like to thank Senator Santorum for helping to secure this funding for the replacement project," said David Hawk, Vice President of the Nesquehoning Borough Authority. "The goal of the project is to enhance the Authority's ability to provide continued reliable water service to our customers - industrial and commercial - and allow us to support the economic growth of our community."
   The Mauch Chunk Historical Society of Carbon County, Inc. received $100,000 from the Institute of Museum and Library Services (IMLS) through the fiscal year 2005 Omnibus Appropriations bill. The Historical Society will use the funding to repair the Opera House located in Jim Thorpe. 
   "It is important for us to preserve Pennsylvania's historical treasures, and I am pleased to deliver funding to the Mauch Chunk Historical Society to assist in their efforts to restore the Opera House in Jim Thorpe," said Senator Santorum.
   "We recognize the Opera House as an important cultural asset located in the center of our northern Market Towns region. While its health and vitality are certainly important locally, the Opera House is an essential part of the larger Corridor community and regional economy that extends from Wilkes-Barre to Bristol," said C. Allen Sachse, Executive Director of the Delaware & Lehigh National Heritage Corridor.
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 