SEN. SANTORUM IN MONTOUR, COLUMBIA COUNTIES TO DISCUSS LONG TERM CARE FOR SENIORS, DELIVER FUNDING
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today held a discussion on long term care at Maria Joseph Continuing Care Community in Danville, Montour County and delivered $200,000 of Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Federal funding to the Berwick Industrial Development Authority (BIDA) in Berwick, Columbia County.  
   Senator Santorum met with administrators, staff and residents of Maria Joseph Continuing Care Community to discuss how to best address the challenges of caring for Pennsylvania's aging population. Senator Santorum is a member of the Senate Select Committee on Aging. 
   "Caring for our parents and grandparents as they age is something that each of us will face at some point in our lives, and we need to be prepared to accommodate and provide quality care for our loved ones," said Senator Santorum. "I came to Danville today to listen to the concerns of those who provide quality care for Pennsylvania's seniors, so we can better prepare to meet the long-term care needs of our parents and grandparents. Pennsylvania is the second oldest state, and the number of Pennsylvanians age 85 and older are projected to increase by thirty-eight percent between 2000 and 2015. We must ensure that the needs of Pennsylvania's seniors are met with the dignity and care they deserve in their golden years." 
   The increase in the percentage of Pennsylvania's elderly population is a result of both the overall national demographic changes and young people leaving Pennsylvania. Long-term care needs are typically triggered by the need for assistance with daily activities such as bathing, eating, and dressing. Long-term care can range from basic help with chores and activities in the home, assistance with activities of daily living in an assisted living facility, or highly skilled care in a nursing facility. 
   Following his long-term care discussion in Danville, Senator Santorum was in Berwick to deliver $200,000 of federal funding from the EPA to the Berwick Industrial Development Authority. 
   "I am pleased to deliver this funding to help Berwick in the process of creating separate storm water and sewage lines that will improve environmental and sanitary conditions of the Susquehanna River," said Senator Santorum. "The Susquehanna River is one of Pennsylvania's great natural treasures and also provides a source of drinking water for much of eastern Pennsylvania. It is important that we upgrade sewage and industrial byproduct treatment so Pennsylvanians can enjoy a safe and clean river ecosystem." 
   State Senator John Gordner (R-27), State Representative David Millard (R-Columbia County), Berwick Mayor Bob Reap, Columbia County Commissioner Chris Young, and Columbia County Commissioner Bill Soberick joined Senator Santorum for the check presentation. Senator Santorum secured the funding in the Fiscal Year 2005 Omnibus Appropriations bill. 
   "Separating storm water from sewerage makes good environmental sense. Today, when heave rains come they overwhelm the capacity of the sewerage treatment system and the overflow goes directly into the Susquehanna River. With Senator Santorum's help, we can start the process of separating the two, which will make for a healthy environment for our children, and lead the way to change the Susquehanna's designation from 'most threatened river' to 'most thriving river'," said Commissioner Young. 
   "Funds obtained via the assistance of Senator Santorum to aid in offsetting the cost of separating the existing combined storm water and sanitary sewer system within the confines of the BIDA Complex will help insure that current jobs and proposed employment opportunities remain in Berwick," said Steve Phillips, Executive Director, BIDA. 
   "I would like to thank Senator Santorum for his assistance in helping BIDA and Columbia County secure funding for the separation of the storm water and sanitary sewer system. This funding will be a big help in revitalizing the BIDA Industrial Park and will help boost the economy of Berwick and Columbia County. Senator Santorum should be commended for helping Pennsylvania's smaller, rural counties and he always represents the needs of Columbia County's residents in Washington," said Commissioner Soberick.
   Contact: Robert Traynham, 202/224-0610.
 
 