SEN. SANTORUM COMMENTS ON FINDINGS IN SOCIAL SECURITY TRUSTEES REPORT
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference and Chairman of the Finance Subcommittee on Social Security and Family Policy, today offered comments following yesterday's release of the 2005 Social Security Trustees Report:  
   "The annual, bipartisan Social Security Trustees Report again confirms that there are significant concerns about the solvency of the Social Security system for future generations of senior citizens. 
   "The latest projections in the Trustees Report reveal that we will start running deficits in just 12 years, one year earlier than last year's projection - 2017 instead of 2018. It also shows that the Trust Fund will be exhausted one year earlier - 2041 instead of 2042. 
   "Americans trust that they'll have a certain level of financial security when they retire after decades of hard work. However, these projections reiterate the need to act sooner rather than later. Without reform to the system, future generations of Americans are at-risk for not having the retirement security enjoyed by previous generations. 
   "As Chairman of the Subcommittee on Social Security and Family Policy, and as a Senator representing the second highest per-capita senior population in the country, I am committed to passing meaningful reform to save and strengthen Social Security for future generations. I have been traveling around my home state of Pennsylvania, discussing this important issue with both seniors and younger Pennsylvanians. Through those conversations and the Trustees Report, it is clear that we have the opportunity and responsibility to work in a bipartisan fashion to protect current and near retirees, while ensuring sustainable financial security and peace of mind for generations to come." 
   To view the full report, please visit the Social Security Administration website: http://www.ssa.gov/OACT/TR/TR05/II_highlights.html#wp76455
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 