SEN. SANTORUM COMMENTS ON DEVELOPMENTS IN SCHIAVO CASE
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today offered comments on recent developments in the situation regarding Terri Schiavo:  
   "I am continually disheartened by state and federal courts' refusal to review Terri Schiavo's case, which would temporarily reinstate her feeding and hydration tube. 
   "In unprecedented acts by Congress and President Bush last weekend, a private relief bill was signed into law enabling the parents of Terri Schiavo to appeal to federal court for review of state court proceedings to ensure that due process has been upheld, and that Terri's rights were protected by the state court. 
   "Last night, Terri's parents filed an emergency application to the U.S. Supreme Court to review the Florida court's failure to uphold the private relief law earlier this week, which would have temporarily reinstated Terri's feeding and hydration tube. 
   "In support of the family's efforts, I joined Senators Frist, Brownback, and Martinez in submitting an amicus brief to the U.S. Supreme Court. The brief cited that the lower courts failed to conduct a complete review of Terri's case consistent with the requirements of the federal law to ensure that her rights were not compromised, and that the courts also declined to provide temporary injunctive relief to ensure that she remain alive during that review. 
   "Had the court followed the intent of Congress, the tube would have been replaced, allowing nourishment to be restored to Terri, while the review of her case continued. However, the Supreme Court denied taking up the case, and now Terri's life is further jeopardized. 
   "Florida Circuit Court Judge George Greer's decisions this week have been outright disrespectful to Terri's family as he not only denied that the tube be reinstated, but he did not rule in a timely fashion so that Terri's parents could take the next steps to help keep their daughter alive." 
   "I commend the efforts of President Bush, Congress, and Governor Jeb Bush to help ensure protection of Terri's rights, and save her life. The actions on the part of the Florida court and the U.S. Supreme Court are unconscionable. Just last week in California Scott Peterson, a convicted murderer, was sentenced to death, and will continue to receive extensive due process and fair consideration in court. 
   "Our U.S. Constitution guarantees all Americans the right to due process. There should be no question that Terri Schiavo should have the same due process and fair treatment in accordance with the law."
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 