SEN. SANTORUM ANNOUNCES SENATE PASSAGE OF MAJOR MINE SAFETY LEGISLATION
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today announced Senate passage of S. 2803, the Mine Improvement and New Emergency Response (MINER) Act of 2006, a comprehensive mine safety bill that will bring about major changes in mine safety regulations. Sen. Santorum is an original cosponsor of this bipartisan bill, which amends the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977 to improve the safety of mines and mining.  
   "I am pleased that my Senate colleagues have agreed to pass this bill that calls for significant reforms in the areas of mine safety," said Senator Santorum. "Given the tragedy at the Sago Mine in West Virginia and the Quecreek Mine rescue that took place in Somerset County, Pennsylvania in 2002, we are all well aware of the dangers associated with mining. We must do all we can to ensure the safety and health of miners." 
   In February, 2006 Senator Santorum toured Mine 84 in Washington, Pennsylvania to see firsthand the conditions of a Pennsylvania mine. Senator Santorum also cosponsored an amendment to a recent tax bill with Senators Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) and Robert Byrd (D-WV) to provide tax incentives to companies for the purchase of costly advanced mine safety equipment. The amendment passed the full Senate in February, 2006. 
   The MINER Act requires mines to develop and continuously update a written emergency response plan and calls for the use of equipment and technology that is currently commercially available and workable in the particular mine. It requires that miners have additional emergency oxygen available to help them survive a disaster, whether they are able to evacuate or are trapped. The bill also includes a provision that will require that every mine make available two rescue teams which are well-trained, familiar with the operations of the mine, and located within one hour of the mine. The MINER Act establishes a permanent Office of Mine Safety and Health within the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) to enhance the development of new mine safety technology and expedite its commercial availability and implementation in mines. It would raise the maximum civil penalties against those who fail to make reasonable efforts to eliminate a known violation.
 
 