CONGRESS SHOULD NOT ACCEPT A PAY-RAISE AT THIS TIME
  Governing, at its most basic, is making choices. Should this program be funded, or are these taxpayer dollars better used elsewhere? Questions like this face members of the United States Senate almost every day. In light of mounting budget deficits, the reconstruction costs following Hurricanes Rita and Katrina, and the rise of energy prices across the nation, finding answers to these questions has become even more critical.  
   Like many other professionals, Senators are scheduled to receive an annual cost-of-living salary adjustment. This adjustment occurs automatically at the end of each year, unless the Senate chooses to pass an amendment to explicitly prevent it. Whether or not such Congressional action occurs has generally depended on the financial situation at the time, and since 1991, Congress has accepted nine salary adjustments while rejecting five. 
   In looking at the extensive costs that are currently facing our nation, it is easy to see that receiving a congressional pay raise was not an appropriate or acceptable action. Thus, on October 18, I joined my colleague Senator Kyl (R-AZ) in offering an amendment to reject this increase. Many of my colleagues voted with us to successfully block the 2006 cost-of-living adjustment for members of Congress. 
   Recently, the Republican leadership asked the Senate committee leaders to find ways to reduce congressional spending. In response to Hurricane Katrina, Congress has already authorized over $60 billion in relief funds for the Gulf Coast - and rightfully so. But it is important that this funding doesn't drive our nation even deeper into debt. We need to find places to decrease our spending as an offset to some of the costs of the extensive, and necessary, relief effort. 
   One example of such action occurred when the Agriculture Committee, of which I am a member, was forced to cut its budget by $3 billion. These cuts included a decrease in funding for important programs in support of conservation and farmers. While no one wanted to decrease the amount of money provided to these programs, which provide valuable assistance and services to Americans, our priorities right now make these cuts a necessity. The Senate is tightening up its spending in similar ways throughout its committees and there is no reason that senators' salaries should be excluded from this movement. 
   This is not the first time such a measure has passed during my tenure in the United States Senate, nor is it the first time I have supported blocking a congressional pay raise. In the mid-1990's, a similar amendment passed the United States Senate three times, each time with my support. There have been other years where a salary adjustment, in keeping up with consumer inflation and in relation to external events, was more appropriate, and the members of Congress did receive a cost-of-living raise. But this was not one of those years, and Senator Kyl's amendment passed with overwhelming support. 
   While critics will say that this vote is politically motivated, or that the savings are somewhat inconsequential, the truth of the matter is that every penny we save helps and the American people need this money more than its senators do. United States Senators are often faced with tough decisions and forced to make tough votes when it comes to distributing taxpayer dollars, but truthfully, this was not one of those times. Elected-officials aren't elected so that we can increase our salaries during times when that money is desperately needed elsewhere. It would be irresponsible for Congress to accept a pay raise in the face of so many unexpected costs, and I am proud that my colleagues in the United States Senate recognized this important truth.
   Contact: Tim Pearson, 202/224-0610.
 
 