SEN. SANTORUM APPLAUDS ANGELS IN ADOPTION
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, is pleased to announce that his 2004 Angels in Adoption award recipients hail from Willow Street, Pennsylvania. The Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute held an awards ceremony yesterday to honor the 2004 Angels in Adoption.  
   Senator Santorum selected Dr. and Mrs. Joe and Lisa Troncale of New Holland, Pennsylvania, as one of the 2004 Congressional Angels in Adoption. Santorum emphasized the incredible devotion Dr. and Mrs. Troncale have to their six children, including two adopted daughters from Russia. While adopting their daughters, the Troncales recognized that orphans in Russia lack the hopes and dreams commonplace among most children in stable families. The Troncales were inspired to help these children recognize that a more hopeful future is possible. As a result, they created a program in 2002 to bring orphaned Russian children between the ages of 6 and 15 to the United States and allow them to live for a summer with families that are interested in adoption. 
   "It is with great pleasure that I present Joe and Lisa Troncale with this honor," Santorum said. "They have demonstrated a commitment to improving the lives of children throughout the world. Every child deserves a loving and permanent family, and I commend the Troncale family for going to extraordinary lengths to help children without families." 
   The Angels in Adoption program was created in 1999 to raise public awareness about the many different ways that committed individuals can help children and families through adoption. 
   "Adoption is not always easy, but it is a loving and sacrificial thing to do," Santorum said. "It means forgetting about yourself and focusing on the needs of others. This is what family is always about. I commend those families who have reached out beyond themselves to help children in need." 
   The Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute is a non-partisan, nonprofit organization dedicated to raising congressional and public awareness about the tens of thousands of foster children in the United States and the millions of orphans around the world in need of permanent, safe, and loving homes.
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 