SEN. SANTORUM APPLAUDS SENATE PASSAGE OF MIDDLE CLASS TAX RELIEF
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, applauds the Senate passage of legislation providing tax relief for working families. H.R. 1308, the Working Families Tax Relief Act of 2004, passed the Senate by a vote of 92-3 last night.  
   "I am pleased that this significant legislation has been passed by the United States Senate," Santorum said. "This tax relief is important to our economy and will benefit hard working families in Pennsylvania." 
   The Working Families Tax Relief Act of 2004 extends provisions affecting millions of Americans that would otherwise expire at the end of this year. This legislation, providing tax relief for working families, maintains: 1.) the $1,000 child tax credit, 2.) tax relief for married couples and 3.) expanded ten percent income tax bracket. These three extensions alone are expected to save Americans more than $106.7 billion through 2010. 
   Also included as part of the tax relief provision are extensions of two tax credit incentives originally introduced by Santorum, the Work Opportunity Tax Credit (WOTC) and the Welfare-to-Work Tax Credit (W-t-W). 
   In 2003 Santorum introduced S. 1180, a bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to modify the WOTC and the W-t-W. The WOTC and W-t-W provide incentives to employers to hire individuals who have a difficult time finding work during good and bad economic times. The WOTC and W-t-W tax credits are both a hiring incentive and a retention incentive-offsetting some of the higher costs of recruiting and hiring and providing a higher reward for those who stay longer on the job. 
   "Legislation like the Working Families Tax Relief is important to help keep money in the hands of the American people instead of government," said Santorum. "Many of these tax credits encourage Americans to reinvest in the nation's economy, offer incentives that strengthen families through marriage, and offer rewards to businesses who provide good jobs to those who are in need of work."
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 