SEN. SANTORUM: A GROWING THREAT
  The primary responsibility of those elected to federal office is to defend and protect the American people and uphold the liberties and institutions that support our democratic way of life. It is a solemn responsibility, a responsibility that is at the forefront of my thoughts each and every day. And it is so important that the American people understand that what is currently happening in Iraq is not happening in isolation. We are not at war merely with the insurgents in Iraq, or even with the terrorists, as the President has stated. We are at war with an ideology-the ideology of Islamic Fascism. 
   If we have learned anything from history, if we have learned anything in the modern age, it is this-when crazy people in control of governments pledge to do monstrous things and aggressively seek the capability to carry out such pledges, we better believe them and act accordingly. We have seen, and millions have suffered through, the consequences of failing to do so. And so I take the enemy-in this case, the Islamic fascists in Iraq and Iran-at their word. When the President of Iran stands up and says that he is going to "wipe Israel off the face of the earth" and come and do the same to Europe and America, we must take him seriously.
   So that begs the question, what can and should we do? First and foremost, the international community cannot continue to enable and embolden the Iranian regime. Just last week we found out that the members of the United Nations have voted the Islamic Republic of Iran to serve as Vice-Chair of the U.N. Disarmament Commission. At a time when Iran has steadfastly refused to abandon its insistent pursuit of enriched uranium, putting this country in such a position is completely nonsensical. The United States should not lend our credibility to a commission that takes action in direct contrast to its stated purpose.
   Second, we must actively support groups and individuals that are committed to democratic ideals and principles in Iran. The current regime has clearly demonstrated that it is not. The people of Iran are entitled to self-determination, to free and fair elections, and we must to provide the resources to help Iranians attain those free and fair elections. Last year, I introduced the Iran Freedom and Support Act, a bill that takes a nonviolent approach to affecting change by providing millions of dollars for pro-democracy efforts in Iran. It will also make it more difficult for the Government of Iran to access revenue and foreign investment, revenue that is then used by the Iranian regime to support terrorist organizations, pursue nuclear activity, and repress its people.
   Thankfully, recent statements and actions by the President of Iran-openly denying the Holocaust, resuming the conversion of raw uranium into gas for enrichment-have alerted my colleagues here in the United States Senate of the urgency of this bill, and it now has over fifty cosponsors. With such strong, bipartisan support for the bill, I am both hopeful and optimistic that we will be able to pass this important statement of policy in the near future.
   While Iran, an oppressive regime and state-sponsor of terrorism, is surely a threat to Americans, our allies, and the stability of the international community, a much greater threat will arise if Iran is allowed to develop a nuclear arsenal. We simply cannot allow this to happen. So it would be extremely detrimental, and frankly, negligent, to allow American businesses and entities to aid the Iranian Government in their pursuit of nuclear technology. To prevent such an occurrence, I have worked to pass the Iranian Nuclear Trade Prohibition Act. This bill, which I introduced last year, prohibits any person, company or government entity that sells nuclear fuel assemblies to Iran from also dealing with a United States business or entity.
   The threat from Iran is real. Those most at risk include the United States and our allies, but also the Iranian people. While I agree with those who have said we must keep all our options on the table, it is vitally important that we try to use our diplomatic options first. But we must be wholly committed to wielding the full force of these options. A half-hearted approach will only allow Iran to subvert our intentions and continue to act, and grow, as an international menace. We must heed the warnings that are so overtly flowing from today's Iran-failure to do so is unconscionably reckless.
 
 