SEN. SANTORUM TESTIFIES ON LOBBYING REFORM AT SENATE COMMITTEE HEARING
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today testified at the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee on "Lobbying Reform: Proposals and Issues."  
   "My goal is to work with my colleagues in a bipartisan manner to develop a robust, comprehensive reform package that becomes a strong bipartisan bill that we can pass on the floor of the United States Senate. This bill will be focused on making this body more accountable to the people that we represent," stated Senator Santorum. 
   In his statement before the Committee, Senator Santorum stated that he is currently working with Senator John McCain (R-AZ) to produce a strong ethics and lobbying reform bill. 
   "Senator McCain and Senator Lieberman's bill, which was introduced in December, will be the basis upon which we build the architecture of my reform bill, and we will be working from there and going further," stated Senator Santorum. "The primary issue will be to increase transparency - to make sure that the people's body is a transparent body and one where the people of our states know what is going on here in the formulation of policy." 
   During his years representing Pennsylvania, both in the United States House of Representatives and the United States Senate, Senator Santorum has established an impressive record of reform. 
   "I came to the United States Senate having spent four years in the United States House as a member of the "Gang of Seven", one of the original congressional reformers," stated Senator Santorum. "But I did not stop with reforming the House. When I came to the United States Senate I did the same thing. One of the reasons I got on the Rules Committee was because I wanted to carry those reforms forward." 
   Other witnesses at today's hearing included: Senators John McCain (R-AZ), Russell Feingold (D-WI), Dick Durbin (D-IL), and Norm Coleman (R-MN); Dick Clark, program director of The Aspen Institute; John Engler, president of the National Association of Manufacturers; Bill Samuel, director for legislation at the AFL-CIO; Paul Miller, president of the American League of Lobbyists; and Fred Wertheimer, president of Democracy 21.
 
 