SEN. SANTORUM HELPS CELEBRATE BIG BROTHERS BIG SISTERS OF GREATER PITTSBURGH'S GRADUATION WITH FUNDING AWARD
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, congratulated Pennsylvania Big Sister of the Year Liana Kennedy-Weller at Friday's graduation ceremony at Big Brothers Big Sisters of Greater Pittsburgh. BBBS Executive Director Walter Jenkins joined Sen. Santorum, along with Board President Laura A. Candris, Board Chair Kenny Ross and Pennsylvania State Rep. Jake Wheatley (D-Allegheny) in thanking Liana Kennedy-Weller for her contribution to the volunteer mentorship program.  
   "Liana's selfless contribution to enriching the life of another young person has not gone unnoticed," said Senator Santorum. "Liana's Little Sister Stepfanie will be the first in her family to attend college. Building relationships with young people through positive role models is the key to developing future leaders. I commend Liana and hope her example will be followed by others." 
   "My experience with Stepfanie has been a joyful and very rewarding experience," said Liana Kennedy-Weller, who is now a stay-at-home mom with infant twins. "When we were matched, Stepfanie was 12 and going through adolescence. At first it was very tough to break through to her but after many weekends together we started laughing and sharing many great times. Since then I have watched Stepfanie grow up to be a beautiful young lady who is very involved in school and looking forward to playing basketball in college." 
   Big Sister Liana is the fifth "Big" from the Pittsburgh agency to be recognized as the state winner within the past five years. Liana Kennedy-Weller and her Little Sister Stepfanie Montgomery went through the Pathways Program together, which has helped Stepfanie earn a $15,000 scholarship for college. A standout basketball player at Peabody High School, Ms. Montgomery has also landed a full athletic scholarship to Community College of Allegheny County. 
   "I love my mentor and even when I graduate from this program we plan to keep in touch with each other," said Stepfanie Montgomery. "Liana does not just look at this as a job or time-consuming event, she really enjoys it and that is why I say that she is truly a real 'Big Sister'." 
   After honoring Liana Kennedy-Weller as Pennsylvania "Big Sister of the Year," Senator Santorum, who sits on the BBBS Community Council, presented a check for $150,000 in federal funding from the Department of Education. Senator Specter (R-PA) also played a role in securing the money that will be used to launch a new mentoring program for the children of incarcerated parents this fall. 
   Executive Director Walter Jenkins says he was inspired to create the program after hearing the President discuss the concept during his State of the Union address in January. 
   "Right now in this community we have more than 7,000 children who have a parent who's incarcerated. If we can provide Big Brother and Big Sisters then we're providing these at-risk kids with the guidance and friendship they need to discover their highest potential." 
   This year also marks the 100th anniversary for BBBS, celebrating its history as the oldest and largest youth mentoring organization in the United States. The organization works closely with parents to match every child with the appropriate Big Brother or Big Sister. Each potential volunteer is screened, trained and supervised to help ensure that the mentor-child relationship will be a safe and rewarding experience. 
   No special skills are required to become a mentor. Any caring adult who is willing to devote an average of one hour each week of his or her time to show a child the joys of everyday life can be a mentor. Many Littles return to the organization to become Bigs and pass on the magical moments they shared to other children in need. 
   For more information on Big Brothers Big Sisters of Greater Pittsburgh log onto www.bbbspittsburgh.org.
   Contact: Amy Hybels, 202/224-0610.
 
 