SEN. SANTORUM INTRODUCES LEGISLATION TO HELP FARMERS PROTECT LAND FROM DEVELOPMENT
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today introduced the Farm and Ranch Land Protection Flexibility Act, a bill to enable farmland protection groups to function more efficiently and to better utilize the federal farmland protection funds.  
   "I am pleased to bring this issue to the forefront by introducing legislation to address the most important problem facing the farmland protection community in Pennsylvania," said Senator Santorum. "The Farm and Ranchlands Protection Program (FRPP) has been extremely successful in helping to protect farm and ranch land. To date, the FRPP has permanently protected more than 300,000 acres. FRPP was designed to assist state and local governments, together with private entities, to protect farm land from development. But, new regulations threaten to undermine the integrity of the program. My bill would prevent the Federal government from overwhelming the Farm and Ranch Land Protection Program with unnecessary, costly and time consuming regulations." 
   The Farm and Ranch Land Protection Flexibility Act would allow qualified state, local and private organizations to enter into annual grant agreements with USDA's Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS). These nonfederal organizations could combine the NRCS grant funding with state, local and private funds to protect farm land. 
   The Farm and Ranch Land Protection Flexibility Act also directs the Secretary of Agriculture to give priority consideration to protecting farmland in watersheds that would benefit most from the protection of farmland. In addition, the bill will adjust eligibility standards for farms with woodlots, wooded corners, and forested riparian areas, thereby making it easier to protect farms with wooded land. 
   During his tenure in the Senate, Senator Santorum has been an active advocate for preserving and protecting farmland from suburban sprawl and development, keeping Pennsylvania's precious farms from becoming shopping malls or condominiums. Almost ten years ago, when Congress passed the 1996 Farm Bill, Senator Santorum was a lead architect of the amendment that authorized the FPPP. The program provides funds to state and local entities, which then use the funds to purchase development easements, thereby creating a revenue source that farmers can access without selling their farms for development. In the 2002 Farm Bill, Congress authorized $597 million for the Farm and Ranch Land Protection program. To date Pennsylvania has received more than $22 million from the program, protecting more than 36,000 acres. 
   "As Congress prepares to write the 2007 Farm Bill, I am eager to use my position on the Senate Agriculture Committee to pursue legislative proposals that would improve the usefulness of our conservation programs," said Senator Santorum. "This legislation that I introduced today is part of my ongoing effort to make certain that Pennsylvania's priorities are reflected in our conservation programs. I look forward to continuing discussions with Farm Bill stakeholders in Pennsylvania. As I was reminded at the recent Senate Agriculture Committee hearing in Harrisburg, farmland protection continues to play an important role in sustaining our agriculture economy in Pennsylvania."
 
 