SEN. SANTORUM RECOGNIZES WINNERS OF CONGRESSIONAL AWARD IN PITTSBURGH
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, recognized the winners of the Congressional Award at a special ceremony in Pittsburgh Friday afternoon. Sen. Santorum was joined by Karen Yee, Chair of the Congressional Award Council of Western Pennsylvania and Dali Li, Treasurer of the Congressional Award Council of Western Pennsylvania, at a special ceremony to honor the recipients of the Silver and Bronze Medals.  
   "I want to commend these young people for setting aside time to give back to others," said Senator Santorum. "The Congressional Award provides young people with an opportunity to contribute to the community through volunteer service which teaches them valuable lessons on what it means to be responsible citizens." 
   Eight students from Western Pennsylvania were recognized as recipients of the Silver Medal for devoting 200 hours of volunteer public service; 100 hours of personal development; and 100 hours of physical fitness. The recipients also completed an exploration/expedition component that involved challenging themselves through an interaction with the wilderness or immersion in an unfamiliar culture. 
   The list of recipients includes Michael Brundige and Jonathon Chisholm from Erie, Sean Conroy from Export, Amanda Iannuzzi and Julia Mutmanski from West Mifflin, Andrew and Jennifer Jasper from Leetsdale (Jennifer was also awarded a Gold Medal in Washington, DC) and Mark Smith from Pittsburgh. 
   Eight other students were awarded the Bronze Medal for performing 100 hours of volunteer public service; 50 hours of personal development; and 50 hours of physical fitness. Recipients named include Daniel Bullock from Sheffield, Andy Chen and Grace Yu from Moon Township, Samantha Yeung from Pittsburgh, Samantha Conroy from Export, Amanda McMillan from Hermine, and Darlene and Thomas Tzou from North Huntingdon. 
   Congress established the Congressional Award in 1979 to recognize initiative, achievement and service in young people. It began as a bipartisan effort in both the United States Senate and the House of Representatives. 
   The enabling legislation (Public Law 96-114) established the Congressional Award as a private-public partnership, which receives all funding from the private sector, and was originally signed into law by President Jimmy Carter.
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 