SENS. SANTORUM, SPECTER ANNOUNCE $3 MILLION IN DEFENSE FUNDING FOR PITTSBURGH COMPANY'S ARTIFICIAL LUNG TECHNOLOGY
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, and Sen. Arlen Specter (R-PA), senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, announced today the passage of an amendment within the Department of Defense Appropriations Bill for Fiscal Year 2005 that makes available $3 million for Pittsburgh's ALung Technologies, Inc.  
   ALung Technologies, Inc. is working with the Army's Combat Casualty Care group at Fort Detrick, MD, on the development of the Intravenous Membrane Oxygenator (IMO), an artificial lung device. 
   Senator Santorum sponsored an amendment during the Senate's consideration of the defense appropriations bill for the research, development, testing and evaluation of the Intravenous Membrane Oxygenator, a device that provides 7-10 day respiratory support for intensive care patients with acute breathing problems. Its developers attest that IMO will provide a significantly safer and less expensive alternative to mechanical ventilation. 
   The Department of Defense has supported the development of IMO because of its recognition that the device would be a valuable tool in treating battlefield casualties of chemical and biological warfare, including inhalation anthrax. 
   "I applaud the hard work of ALung Technologies in conjunction with the Department of Defense on this important technology that promotes economic development for southwestern Pennsylvania, and can help save the lives of our men and women in uniform," said Santorum. 
   The IMO is a catheter-like device made up of a tightly bound fabric of microporous polypropylene hollow-fiber membranes that is inserted temporarily through a vein in the leg and threaded into a major vein near the heart. Early tests show it can substitute 40 percent to 60 percent of a patient's compromised lung function. 
   "I am pleased my Senate colleagues have approved this important funding for ALung Inc.," Senator Specter said. "This project will go a long way to supporting the men and women of our Armed Services, particularly as our nation continues its war against terror." 
   "I had the opportunity to visit ALung Technologies, Inc. this past spring and see first-hand how this device will provide breathing capabilities to our servicemen and women subjected to chemical or biological agents during military operations," said Senator Santorum. "This funding will go a long way in continuing the development of this life-saving technology." 
   The Department of Defense Appropriations Bill for Fiscal Year 2005 will now be reviewed by a conference of Members of the House and Senate to work out final provisions.
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 