THE FIGHT FOR TERRI'S LIFE
  This week, the world watched the innocent life of Terri Schiavo hang in the balance. We watched children and adults show their support for Terri outside of the hospice in Florida, youngsters handcuffed for trying to bring her water, and court after court turn down Terri's constitutional right to due process. As I too watched these images, I could not sit by and let an innocent life drift away without a fair review.  
   There are several things that we know about Terri Schaivo. We know that in 1990, she suffered a massive cardiac arrest that left her profoundly cognitively disabled. Since then, she has been dependent on a feeding tube for sustenance. We also know that she is not in a coma, she is not dying, and she is not terminal. Terri is disabled. As a father, it is gut wrenching to see Terri's parents plea for her life as she shows signs of emotion and acknowledgment - following a balloon with her eyes and responding to music. 
   However, there is still genuine disagreement over what Terri's capacity is. Is she in a persistent vegetative state or does she have the capacity to do and become more? There are several circumstances that make Terri's case unique. Questions have been raised as to the quality of care Terri has received during this time. In addition, there is disagreement between medical experts as to Terri's actual physical condition and whether she could learn to swallow on her own if she received intensive therapy. Other questions have been raised related to Terri's responsiveness to her family members and to painful stimuli and what this may indicate about her level of consciousness. 
   It is further unclear what Terri's intent was prior to her cardiac arrest - would she want to live or die if in her current state? Michael Schiavo argues that despite the absence of any written expression of her wishes, Terri told him that she would never want to be kept alive "artificially." However, Terri's parents, Bob and Mary Schindler, have fought to prevent the removal of her feeding tube and argue that Terri never expressed an opinion relating to a situation similar to her current situation. 
   Because we do not know if Terri is in fact living "artificially" and what her intent was, Congress should always, as President Bush has said, "err on the side of life." And so, we stepped forward to make sure that Terri's civil rights were upheld. Our U.S. Constitution guarantees all Americans the right to due process. Just last week in California, Scott Peterson, a convicted murderer, was sentenced to death, yet his constitutional rights were upheld to ensure that he received due process and fair consideration in court. There should be no question that Terri Schiavo should have the same due process and fair treatment in accordance with the law. 
   Furthermore, when it is obvious that certain judges and courts have distorted several facts surrounding a case under the balance of powers, it is Congress's duty to challenge their decisions. It was necessary for Congress to enact legislation to ensure that Terri's constitutional right to equal protection is fully exercised and for a court to review her case, including all of the outstanding evidence. 
   Congress worked hard to do all they could to provide relief to Terri and to delay the extraction of the feeding tube. In unprecedented acts by Congress and President Bush, a private relief bill was signed into law enabling the parents of Terri Schiavo to appeal to federal court for review of state court proceedings to ensure that due process was upheld, and that Terri's rights were protected by the state court. This legislation remains consistent with the will of the people of Florida who have been repeatedly frustrated by the state courts. 
   It was our hope that while the U.S. Supreme Court exercised this discretion, the tube would have been replaced, allowing nourishment to be restored to Terri while the review of her case continued. However, the Supreme Court denied taking up the case, thumbing their nose at congressional intent, and Terri's life was further jeopardized. I am disheartened by the state and federal courts' refusal to review Terri Schiavo's case. Their actions are unconscionable. They have sentenced Terri to death by dehydration and starvation - a sentence that would not be placed on the worst criminal. 
   I commend the efforts of President Bush, Congress, and Governor Jeb Bush to help ensure protection of Terri's rights, and to attempt to save her life. Congress was right in passing legislation to let Terri live and not die a slow painful death.
 
 