SEN. SANTORUM ANNOUNCES END TO LONG-DISTANCE TELEPHONE EXCISE TAX
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today joined U.S. Treasury Secretary John Snow to announce that the government will stop collecting the tax on long-distance telephone services. As a result of this announcement, the Department of Justice will no longer pursue litigation over this archaic tax law on long-distance services, and the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) will issue refunds of tax on long-distance service for the past three years. Taxpayers will be able to apply for refunds on their 2006 tax forms, to be filed in 2007.  
   "I am pleased that the Department of Treasury has decided to repeal the tax on long-distance services - a tax that is regressive and unnecessary," said Senator Santorum. "However, I will continue to work towards repealing the telephone excise tax imposed on local services. As I have said in the past, the telephone excise tax is outdated and long overdue for full repeal. It burdens one of the essential services relied upon by millions of American every day, not only for basic communications but also for emergency services." 
   "Today is a good day for American taxpayers; it marks the beginning of the end of an outdated, antiquated tax that has survived a century beyond its original purpose, and by now should have been ancient history," said Treasury Secretary John Snow. "The Federal Appeals courts have spoken across the board. It's time to `disconnect' this tax and put it on the permanent `do not call' list. In addition to ending the litigation, I would like to call on Congress to terminate the remainder of this antique tax by repealing the excise tax on local service as well." 
   Senator Santorum has been a strong advocate for repealing the telephone excise tax. In June 2005, Senator Santorum introduced S. 1321, the Telephone Excise Tax Repeal Act. This bill now has 15 cosponsors in the U.S. Senate, and the companion bill in the House of Representative has gained over 180 cosponsors. Earlier this month, Senator Santorum sent a letter to Secretary Snow opposing the three percent excise tax that all American telephone consumers must pay. 
   The telephone excise tax is considered a regressive tax because lower-income individuals spend a higher percentage of their income on the taxed item than those with higher-incomes. A 1987 study by the CBO concluded that excise taxes on telephone service had a greater impact on low-income families than did excise taxes on alcoholic beverages and tobacco products. Studies have shown that individuals and families with income less than $10,000 spend almost 10 percent of their income on telephone bills, while individuals and families earning $50,000 spend only two percent of their income for telephone service. 
   The Joint Committee on Taxation stated in its January 2005 report "there is no compelling policy argument for imposing taxes on communications services." The Congressional Budget Office (CBO) took this a step further by stating in February 2005 that the tax "has harmful effects on economic policy."
 
 