SEN. SANTORUM NAMED 'FRIEND OF THE FARM BUREAU'
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, was named a "Friend of the Farm Bureau" by the American Farm Bureau Federation (AFBF) and the Pennsylvania Farm Bureau (PFB). The award is given annually to Members of Congress who vote consistently in favor of issues of significance to the Farm Bureau. Sen. Santorum also was a recipient of this award in 2005.  
   "It is an honor to receive this award from the AFBF and the Pennsylvania Farm Bureau," said Senator Santorum. "Agriculture is a vital part of Pennsylvania's economy and I am pleased to be able to assist Pennsylvania farmers in any way that I can through my role as a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee. Throughout my travels to each of Pennsylvania's 67 counties each year, I enjoy reaching out to those in the agriculture industry so that I can go back to Washington and help solve problems that they may be facing. I would like to thank the Pennsylvania Farm Bureau for this award, and I will continue to work for the best interest of Pennsylvania farmers." 
   Senator Santorum received the award for his work extending the Milk Income Loss Contract program, his efforts to repeal the estate tax for family farms, his support of the Central American and Dominican Republic Free Trade Agreement, and votes in support of alternative and renewable energy development. Senator Santorum also worked with the Pennsylvania Farm Bureau and USDA's Risk Management Agency to expand crop insurance availability. 
   Senator Santorum is a member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry, where he chairs the subcommittee on Research, Nutrition, and General Legislation. In July, he hosted a Senate Agriculture Committee field hearing in Harrisburg as part of committee preparation for the upcoming Farm Bill. Members of the Pennsylvania Farm Bureau, including President Carl T. Shaffer, provided expert testimony at the hearing. 
   "Senator Santorum has proven his support for farmers over the years by engaging in agricultural issues having direct impact on Pennsylvania's farm communities. He knows the farm economy of our state and is in a position to represent us effectively," said Ed McCready, Chairman of the PAFB Government Relations Committee.
 
 