SEN. SANTORUM PRESENTS MEDALS TO VETERANS IN LUZERNE COUNTY
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, traveled to Luzerne County today to present medals to several veterans who served our nation during times of war and peacekeeping missions.  
   "It is my profound honor to present these distinguished individuals with the recognition and appreciation they deserve in tribute to their honorable service to our country. The freedoms and liberties we cherish so fiercely do not come cheap," said Santorum. "We rely on the men and women who bravely wear the uniforms of our armed forces to risk their own lives and to preserve the life we are able to have. These medals are a symbolic gesture of gratitude from a grateful nation for the years of dedicated and vigilant service." 
   Below are the individuals who received medals today: 
   Charles W. Gaggi of Wayne County, Fireman First Class, USNR United States Navy, is a recipient of the World War II Victory Medal, American Campaign Medal, Asiatic - Pacific Campaign Medal with one silver and four bronze star attachments, Honorable Service Lapel Pin, Discharge Button, Philippine Liberation Ribbon with two stars and the Philippine Presidential Unit Citation. 
   Joseph Hart, Sr. of Luzerne County, Corporal, United States Army, is a recipient of the Bronze Star, Purple Heart with Oak Leaf Cluster, Good Conduct Medal, National Defense Service Medal, Korean Service Medal with seven campaign stars, and the United Nations Service Medal. 
   Wanda Jarecki of Luzerne County, 1st Lt., Army Nurse Corp, United States Army, is a recipient of the American Campaign Medal, Asiatic-Pacific Campaign Medal, World War II Victory Medal, World War II Honorable Service Lapel Button, and a Bronze Star. 
   John Jarecki of Luzerne County, Sergeant, United States Army, is a recipient of the Meritorious Service Unit Citation, and Good Conduct Medal. Receiving the medals on his behalf are his wife Wanda Jarecki and son, Paul Jarecki. 
   Samuel John Lee of Coolville, Ohio, Staff Sergeant, United States Army, is a recipient of the Bronze Star Medal, Good Conduct Medal, American Campaign Medal, European - African - Middle Eastern Campaign Medal with one bronze star, World War II Victory Medal, Combat Infantryman Badge 1st Award, World War II Honorable Service Lapel Button, and Marksman Badge with carbine bar. Receiving the medals on his behalf is his granddaughter, Lisa Welsh of Northumberland County. 
   Oliver Nallon of Luzerne County, Sergeant, United States Army, is a recipient of the Silver Star, Good Conduct Medal, Asiatic-Pacific Campaign Medal with one bronze star, World War II Victory Medal, Philippine Liberation Ribbon with one bronze star, World War II Honorable Service Lapel button, and Sharpshooter Badge with rifle bar. Receiving the medals on his behalf is his grandson, David Nallon. 
   William Robert Parrick of Luzerne County, Technician 5th Grade, United States Army, is a recipient of the Good Conduct Medal, World War II Victory Medal, Army of Occupation Medal with Germany Clasp, World War II Honorable Service Lapel Button, and Sharpshooter Badge with carbine bar. Receiving the medals on his behalf is his wife, Rita Parrick. 
   Samuel Thomas Perrins of Luzerne County, Sergeant First Class, United States Army, is a recipient of the Bronze Star Medal. 
   Joseph Soy of Luzerne County, Sergeant, United States Army, is a recipient of the Good Conduct Medal, Meritorious Unit Emblem, American Defense Service Medal, American Campaign Medal, European - African - Middle Eastern Campaign Medal, World War II Victory Medal, World War II Honorable Service Lapel Button, Marksman Badge with machine gun bar, Sharpshooter Badge with rifle bar, and the Bronze Star. 
   Bernard Matthew Tobias of Luzerne County, Private First Class, United States Army, is a recipient of the Bronze Star Medal, Good Conduct Medal, Presidential Unit Emblem, Meritorious Unit Emblem, American Campaign Medal, European - African - Middle Eastern Campaign Medal with four bronze star attachments, World War II Victory Medal, Combat Infantryman Badge, World War II Honorable Service Lapel Button and Motor Vehicle Driver Badge. Receiving the medals on his behalf is his wife Donna Tobias.
   Contact: Kristen Vanderpool, 202/224-0610.
 
 