SEN. SANTORUM DISCUSSES HEALTH CARE IN BRADFORD COUNTY, PRESENTS FUNDING IN SULLIVAN COUNTY
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, traveled to Bradford and Sullivan counties today. 
   Santorum met with business leaders and elected officials at Physicians Care in Towanda, Bradford County. While at the 25-doctor medical center that serves Bradford, Wyoming, Sullivan, and Susquehanna counties, he discussed health care affordability and access to health care in rural Pennsylvania.  
   State Representative Tina Pickett (R-Bradford County) joined Senator Santorum at the medical facility. After listening to health care concerns, Santorum gave a legislative update and answered questions about important issues facing the Commonwealth. 
   "I share the concerns about health care in rural Pennsylvania, and I will continue to work with my colleagues in Congress to pass sensible legislation that provides Pennsylvanians with better access to quality health care," said Santorum. 
   Santorum then traveled to Sullivan County to present funding for a replacement water line for Laporte Borough. The Senator was joined by Laporte Borough Council President Winifred Ferguson when he presented a check for $150,000 to replace a mile-long transmission and distribution line from the well to the water tank. The existing line was installed in 1947 and has been prone to large blowouts in recent years, leading to costly repairs and disruption of service. This initiative will be a significant infrastructure investment for the Borough of Laporte. 
   "Laporte Borough Water Company is truly indebted to Senator Santorum for his help in obtaining a grant in the amount of $150,000," said Winifred G. Ferguson, President of Laporte Borough Council & Laporte Borough Municipal Water Company. "The Borough is faced with replacing a 57-year-old, one mile long waterline at a cost of approximately $400,000 and this grant makes it possible to move forward with this project." 
   "We take clean water for granted when we know it will flow freely every time we turn on the faucet," said Santorum. "The community of Laporte has faced difficult times when clean water was not always so accessible. That's why I am so pleased that I was able to secure funding for Laporte so that residents can be assured that their water is drinkable and usable every day."
   Contact: Kristen Vanderpool, 202/224-0610.
 
 