SEN. SANTORUM DISCUSSES MEDICAL LIABILITY AT GEISINGER MEDICAL CENTER IN MONTOUR COUNTY, TOURS COLUMBIA COUNTY PLANT
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today joined Bruce Hamory, MD, Geisinger Health System Chief Medical Officer to listen to residents and health professionals at Geisinger Medical Center in Danville, Montour County voice their concerns about the increasing costs associated with medical liability insurance.  
   "Facilities like Geisinger are losing millions of dollars every year because of the high cost of insurance premiums, and we, as lawmakers, have a responsibility to reduce this unnecessary burden on hospitals and health providers," said Santorum. 
   Since there are no limits on lawsuits against health care providers, medical liability insurance rates have increased significantly. The Hospital & Healthsystem Association of Pennsylvania reports that the total cost of medical liability insurance coverage for Pennsylvania's hospitals has increased 106 percent since 2000. This increase has had a dramatic economic impact on hospital systems. 
   "Health care providers are forced to spend much of their budgets on insurance costs instead of ensuring that their facilities are adequately staffed and equipped with the most up-to-date technology," said Santorum. "Ultimately, as a society we lose out. We see our doctors leaving, we find it more difficult to access medical care in a timely fashion, and as patients we are left to pick up the tab for exorbitant lawsuits." 
   "We are very pleased that Senator Santorum is visiting Geisinger. He has long been an advocate of quality health care in Pennsylvania, and we appreciate his interest in the many issues challenging medicine today," said Bruce Hamory, MD, Geisinger Health System Chief Medical Officer. 
   Senator Santorum remains committed to solving the crisis and continues to work with Senate leadership to pass meaningful medical liability reform that will ensure patients' access to quality and affordable health care. Unfortunately, Senate Democrats have blocked liability legislation three times, including the most recent legislation to protect patients' access to emergency and trauma care and obstetrical and gynecological care - two of the specialties most severely impacted by this crisis. 
   Santorum also visited Berwick Offray in Columbia County today where he toured their new facility and met with employees. Berwick Offray is the world's largest manufacturer and distributor of decorative ribbons and bows. Founded in 1945 as a family-owned business, Berwick Offray employs over 1,000 workers, making it the largest employer in Columbia County. 
   "We are pleased that Senator Santorum made time to visit our new company headquarters and see firsthand the contributions and impact Berwick Offray has on the local community. We take great pride in our new facility and the jobs we have created for Columbia and surrounding counties," said Christopher Munyan, President of Berwick Offray, LLC. 
   "Small businesses and manufacturers play an integral role as the engine that keeps Pennsylvania and America's economy moving forward. I will continue to support legislation that protects small business and stimulates economic development in rural communities like Berwick," said Santorum.
   Contact: Kristen Vanderpool, 202/224-0610.
 
 