SEN. SANTORUM VISITS MERCER COUNTY TO ANNOUNCE FUNDING FOR SEWER UPGRADES
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today traveled to Hermitage, Pennsylvania to present a check to the Mercer County Regional Council of Governments. The check represents a federal appropriation earmarked in the 2004 federal budget for sewer projects in Northwest Pennsylvania. 
   Senator Santorum met with City of Sharon's Mayor, David Ryan, and Hermitage City Manager Gary Hinkson at the Mercer County Regional Council of Governments Offices in Hermitage, Pennsylvania.
   The check for $150,000 will provide the initial funding for several projects designed to upgrade aging sewer systems in Mercer County.
   "I'm hopeful that the initial funding will help local communities move forward with plans to upgrade sewage treatment plants and extend city sewer lines," said Senator Santorum. "I look forward to learning more about the municipalities' goals to repair and expand sanitary sewer services to homes and businesses in their communities."
   Projects under consideration include the construction of a new water plant for the Borough of Sharpsville, and the extension of sewer lines outside of the city of Hermitage into Jefferson Township along State Route 62. The Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection has also mandated upgrades to the City of Sharon's sewage treatment plant, which is also used by the Upper Shenango Valley Sewer Authority.
   Sharon Mayor David Ryan says the sewer plant is experiencing some overflows into the river, requiring the plant to expand to increase its capacity.
   "The plant's been around for a long time," said Mayor Ryan, "the last time it was brought up to standard was back in 1991. It's been at this capacity for 13 years and more should have been done the last time it was expanded. Now the DEP has mandated the sewage plant double its capacity from 4.5 million gallons to 8.77 million gallons a day."
   "We appreciate the Senator's presence in Hermitage and his help in securing federal funding," said Hermitage City Manager Gary Hinkson. "He understands what some of these local communities are facing."
   Several municipalities are pursuing additional sources of funding offered through the U.S.D.A. Rural Development Administration. Additional assistance may also be provided to communities with infrastructure needs through programs administered at the state level.
   Contact: Amy Hybels, 202/224-0610.
 
 