SEN. SANTORUM INTRODUCES LEGISLATION TO PROTECT PETS
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today introduced the Pet Animal Welfare Statute (PAWS) in the Senate to address the lack of regulatory oversight that has allowed some in the pet industry to operate below the acceptable care standards for pets. Sen. Richard Durbin (D-IL) is an original cosponsor of the legislation.  
   Wholesale dog and cat breeding facilities are licensed to operate by the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) and are required to comply with the rules and regulations of the Animal Welfare Act (AWA) which sets forth standards for humane handling and treatment of animals. However, under current law only breeders and others who sell animals at wholesale are regulated, allowing some clearly commercial breeders and brokers to avoid regulation by selling directly to the consumer. The USDA has very limited ability to oversee the care and condition of animals in these facilities. 
   PAWS calls for regulation of large commercial breeders who sell directly to the public and does not affect hobby breeders or dog and cat fanciers. The legislation would require a USDA license for breeders who breed seven or more litters of dogs or cats per year. In addition, this broad ranging legislation would cover importers, Internet sellers and other non-breeder dealers who sell more than 25 dogs or cats per year, strengthen USDA's enforcement authority, and assure USDA access to source records of persons who acquire dogs for resale. Finally, PAWS expands the USDA's authority to seek injunctions against unlicensed dog and cat dealers. 
   "As the proud owner of a two-year-old German Shepard named Schatzie, it is disturbing to see the number of breeders who are careless in their responsibilities of breeding dogs in a healthy and humane environment," said Senator Santorum. "Breeding and raising dogs without respect to the animal's welfare guarantees bad results for the unknowing owner, and for the health of the dog and her puppies. 
   In an effort to provide the proper care and treatment of animals in commercial breeding facilities, Senator Santorum introduced the Puppy Protection Act in the 107th Congress, which was passed by the Senate and included in the 2002 Farm bill, but was removed from the Farm bill before final passage. The bill called for the enforcement of existing standards for the health maintenance and well being of animals in commercial dog breeding facilities, ensuring that puppies have a safe and disease-free life. 
   Senator Santorum is a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee and Chairman of the Subcommittee on Research, Nutrition and General Legislation, which has jurisdiction over this issue. 
   "I look forward to working with Chairman Saxby Chambliss (R-GA) and my other colleagues on the Senate Agriculture Committee to take swift action on this important bill," said Senator Santorum.
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 