SEN. SANTORUM VISITS WESTMINSTER COLLEGE IN NEW WILMINGTON TO ANNOUNCE FUNDING FOR LIBRARY UPGRADES
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, accompanied Westminster College President R. Thomas Williamson on a tour of the McGill Library on the college's campus on Wednesday afternoon. 
   Senator Santorum presented a check for $100,000 to Westminster College to help equip the library with an updated electronic collection management system and 25 new public access computers. The appropriation, secured in the FY04 federal budget, will benefit more than just college students. McGill Library serves residents from nearby Lawrence and Mercer counties, including New Wilmington Borough and Wilmington Township.
   "The upgrades to the McGill Library system will not only benefit the 1,600 students who attend Westminster College, but the residents who live in the surrounding communities served by the library," said Senator Santorum. "Providing families and seniors with reading and learning resources is a quality of life issue that this grant will help to improve."
   "This grant will help Westminster College serve the community by installing an automated library server system and 25 computers," said Westminster College President R. Thomas Williamson. "Area residents have enjoyed the community bookshelf, children's collection, artifacts, and research capabilities of McGill Library for decades. Thanks to Senator Santorum's efforts, Westminster can now be an even better neighbor and partner for progress."
   McGill Library serves a dual role as a community library for the greater New Wilmington area as well as an academic library. Community services include a "community bookshelf" which provides popular reading materials for area residents and a "children's bookroom" that offers a summer literacy program for children with reading difficulties.
   "Currently there are more than 125 town cards in use, and they have access to everything we have," said Yvonne Ayers, circulation assistant at McGill Library. "The children's library is used frequently by grandmothers and grandfathers who bring their grandchildren to read them a story. We also have Amish teachers who stop by and use our material for their work."
   The library provides an important resource within walking distance to the retirement community across the street at the new Shenango-On-The-Green facility.
   Westminster College is undergoing a long-term $3-4 million dollar renovation of McGill Library that will enhance its community service and academic functions. The technology upgrade has been accomplished with this grant and a gift donation from the Class of 1953 that supported the installation of wireless networking technology throughout the building.
   Contact: Amy Hybels, 202/224-0610.
 
 