SEN. SANTORUM TRAVELS TO NW PA TO PRESENT CHECKS TO FIRE FIGHTERS FOR PURCHASE OF NEW EQUIPMENT TO IMPROVE FIRE FIGHTER SAFETY
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, traveled to the Franklin Fire Department on the Emlenton Volunteer Firemen Association's new $600,000 heavy rescue truck, equipped with the jaws of life and an on-board air system capable of filling the air tanks firefighters wear on their backs on-site. In Franklin, Senator Santorum presented checks to three Venango County Fire Departments who received 2003 Assistance to Firefighter Grant Awards. 
   The Assistance to Firefighters Program, also known as the FIRE Act grant program, was established by the FY2001 National Defense Authorization Act. The program, which is administered by the Office for Domestic Preparedness within the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), provides federal grants directly to local fire departments to help provide equipment and training.
   "I would like to offer my congratulations to the Franklin Fire Department, the Emlenton Volunteer Firemen Association, and to the Oil City Fire Department in securing the tools necessary to fight fires," said Senator Santorum. "The purchase of new protective outerwear and self-contained breathing apparatus and air bottles is a critical component of firefighter safety that we cannot afford to delay."
   Franklin Fire Department Chief David Ace says the $63,428 federal grant helped his department place a bid to purchase 14 sets of brand new self-contained breathing apparatus (SCBAs), replacing bottles that were 15 years old.
   "We're in such a depressed economy in rural Northwest Pennsylvania, we need this type of assistance in purchasing some of the big ticket items," said Chief Ace whose department consists of seven full time and six part time firefighters. "While Franklin's population fell to about 7,000 in the last census, we've still been able to maintain a skeleton paid department."
   The Emlenton Volunteer Firemen Association's $141,925 grant has helped outfit its volunteer force with brand new protective gear including new coats, bunker pants and boots as well as new SCBAs.
   "Our SCBAs were 15 years old, and my coat was about 20 years old," said Assistant Chief Barry Louise. "It's imperative that our firefighters have updated, regulation protective gear due to the number of hazardous fires we get called to as a result of volatile flammable liquids being hauled up and down Interstate 80. Our volunteers are the first called to any emergency along the Interstate, and it's important that everyone is outfitted properly."
   Oil City's 16 full-time firefighters have also used their $33,300 federal grant to help replace outdated turnout gear. Fire Captain Steven Hinds says the purchase of new pants, gloves, helmets and boots enables his department to work more efficiently.
   "The new gear is lighter and more comfortable," said Captain Hinds. "The material is more flexible which allows for greater maneuverability and less wear and tear on the body, allowing firefighters to do their jobs without struggling against the clothing all the time."
   Senator Santorum, who helped write letters to secure the latest round of fire grants, cosponsored the FIRE Act, which provides assistance to fire departments and fire prevention organizations in order to protect the public and firefighters against fire-related hazards. 
   In FY2003, the program received $745 million through the Omnibus appropriations bill. This legislation created a separate appropriations account designated "Firefighter Assistance Grants." The purpose was to emphasize the program's importance and to ensure the program would be protected since it was moved to the Homeland Security Department.
   The FY04 Department of Homeland Security Appropriations bill includes $750 million for the FIRE Act program. President Bush signed the bill into law on October 1, 2003.
   Contact: Amy Hybels, 202/224-0610.
 
 