SEN. SANTORUM ATTENDS SURPRISE RETIREMENT PARTY FOR TWO SEWICKLEY SCHOOL TEACHERS
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, visited Edgeworth Elementary School in Sewickley to attend a surprise retirement party for librarian Mim Bizic and teacher Sandra Lee Wilson. 
   Senator Santorum presented framed personal letters from First Lady Laura Bush to Mrs. Bizic and Miss Wilson, honoring their commitment to education and to the students of Edgeworth Elementary School. Mrs. Bizic recalls a young Congressman by the name of Rick Santorum attending a High Achievers Program (HAP) fair at Edgeworth Elementary in 1997. As quoted from Mrs. Mim Bizic's recollection of most memorable times in her career, a student who had performed some magic tricks recited, "Ali-ka-neek, Ali-ka-zam, bring forth our U-S-Con-gress-man!" and out stepped a young Rick Santorum! "Dynamite!" Mrs. Bizic cites this memory as one of her fondest.
   On Wednesday the school re-introduced Senator Santorum, but this time it was the Senator who turned to honor Mrs. Bizic and Miss Wilson for their respective 41 years and 35 years of service.
   "I want to take this opportunity to personally honor Mim Bizic and Sandra Lee Wilson's exceptional years of dedication and excellence to the many students who have passed through the doors of Edgeworth Elementary School," said Senator Santorum. "How do you express your appreciation to two women who have devoted their entire lives to educating the Commonwealth's next generation of leaders? A simple thank you seems largely inadequate as we bid you farewell."
   When reflecting on her 35 years of teaching, Sandra Lee Wilson wrote, "My greatest awards are the many, many students who return to Edgeworth to see me and tell me how important I was in their lives. Teachers don't get to see their 'finished product' very often, and it is a wonderful treat to have a young adult that you have taught come back to say 'Thank you'."
   Mim Bizic, who spent 41 years at Edgeworth Elementary, wrote, "Thank you, Quaker Valley. I joined your army and saw the world through the eyes of two generations of happy, singing students, and enjoyed every minute of it! Wonderful ones, keep being your best, and always remember, 'If you read, you succeed!'"
   Contact: Amy Hybels, 202/224-0610.
 
 