SEN. SANTORUM URGES PENNSYLVANIA GOVERNOR TO EXTEND DEADLINE FOR RETURN OF OVERSEAS MILITARY BALLOTS
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, sent the letter below in response to Pennsylvania Gov. Ed Rendell's letter regarding the issue of overseas military ballots.  
   October 26, 2004 
   The Honorable Edward G. Rendell 
  Governor 
  Commonwealth of Pennsylvania 
  225 Main Capitol Building 
  Harrisburg, PA 17120 
   Dear Governor Rendell: 
   As a United States Senator representing the people of Pennsylvania, I am responding to your letter regarding the right of every Pennsylvanian to have their vote counted. I agree that the right to vote should never be compromised for any reason, which is why I am disappointed that you are fighting commonsense efforts to ensure that members of our Armed Forces and other Pennsylvanians living overseas are counted in the 2004 election. 
   According to recent Department of Defense (DoD) figures, there are an estimated 1.4 million men and women serving in our Armed Forces. Additionally, there are another 1.3 million military dependents of voting age. Added to these numbers are an estimated 100,000 federal civilian employees stationed overseas, and approximately 3.7 million overseas American civilians who are not affiliated with the United States government. 
   According to the Federal Election Commission (FEC), approximately 75% of worldwide uniformed service personnel participated in the 2000 election, as opposed to only 51% of the general public. Also according to FEC data, 72% of overseas uniformed services participated in the 2000 election. These numbers are even more impressive given a recent U.S. Government Accountability Office report that the quality of programs to assist military and overseas voters is varied and inconsistent. 
   The Office of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff estimates that 6,500 Pennsylvanians on Active Duty are deployed abroad in U.S. Central Command's geographic area of responsibility, a region that includes both Iraq and Afghanistan. In addition, roughly 4,100 Pennsylvanians who are members of our Reserve Component (National Guard and Reserves) are deployed to this remote region of the world. 
   I have heard directly from service members who have recently returned from the war in Iraq and learned that first-class mail takes four to six weeks to arrive from the United States. So, in a best-case scenario, ballots mailed on September 20 are being delivered to our men and women in uniform this week. It is nearly impossible for our soldiers to return their ballots by the October 28 deadline. 
   This past April, you hailed a United States District Court for the Middle District of Pennsylvania ruling as a "culmination of weeklong efforts by officials in the Pennsylvania Department of State, the Office of Attorney General, and the Department of Justice, Voting Rights Section and county elections officials to find ways to assure that the ballots of absent military and overseas voters who timely applied for absentee ballots under Federal and Pennsylvania law are received by county boards of elections in time to be counted. The extension of this deadline will assure that Pennsylvania voters serving on active duty in the U.S. military services and civilians who are overseas have a full and fair opportunity to vote by absentee ballot in the April 27, 2004 General Primary." 
   You went on to say, "It would simply be unjust for these individuals to become disenfranchised because of procedural and administrative delays. I am proud that through our efforts all Pennsylvanians' votes will be counted in this important election." 
   When the U.S. Department of Justice recently attempted to ensure that these same voters have the same full and fair opportunity to vote in the November General Election, you fought their effort. In your letter, you state, "...all Pennsylvania military and overseas ballots have been sent out in accordance with federal law." Although not identified in your letter, you admit that at least two counties failed to deliver ballots as required by law. Our constituents deserve to know which counties did not meet the statutory deadline. 
   The bottom line is that at least two counties, for reasons beyond their control, did not send their ballots out on time. What harm is there in extending the deadline for our service men and women overseas to return their ballots to count for this election, as was the case in the General Primary election earlier this year? 
   According to a recent press report, you have conceded that the overseas ballot deadline should be reviewed. If this issue is important enough to be reviewed, why wait until after the election to do so? If our shared goal is to protect every eligible vote, shouldn't we join together in a non-partisan effort and ask the court to extend the deadline to receive overseas absentee ballots? 
   Through the years, you and I have often stood side-by-side for the good of Pennsylvania. There is nothing controversial about extending the deadline to receive overseas absentee ballots in order to ensure that every eligible vote is counted. In some areas of Iraq and Afghanistan, the chances of soldiers receiving their ballots, marking them, and getting them back by Election Day are as remote as their location. The right thing to do is extend the deadline. Our men and women in the military fight for our right to vote - we should do everything in our power to preserve their right. 
   Lastly, you have made a commitment that if "credible evidence is presented in a timely manner that any county has not complied with the law, the Commonwealth is prepared to seek an appropriate judicial remedy." By admitting, "Two relatively small counties failed to deliver and mail ballots as required by law," you open the door to supporting an effort to extend the deadline to receive absentee ballots. I am hopeful that when given a second chance, you will be an advocate for the right of every Pennsylvanian to vote. 
   Sincerely, 
   Rick Santorum 
  United States Senate.
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610. 
 
 