SEN. SANTORUM PARTICIPATES IN GROUNDBREAKING FOR 2ND EAST HILLS HOUSING REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN PITTSBURGH
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today joined Allegheny Chief Executive Dan Onorato, Pittsburgh Mayor Tom Murphy and community residents to celebrate the official groundbreaking of the 2nd East Hills Housing Redevelopment.  
   The ceremony celebrated Phase I of the overall $45 million housing redevelopment, which is currently underway. Phase I is a $20 million investment to build 117 three- and four-bedroom town homes located on 14 acres of the 24-acre property in East Hills, Pittsburgh. The renovations include architectural improvements at a cost of $117,000 per unit; each unit will be outfitted with new appliances, fixtures, framing, dry wall, windows, doors, plumbing, kitchens, HVAC flooring and new bathrooms, as well as an additional bathroom in each unit. 
   "2nd East Hills is a key project for Allegheny County and very important to both the residential and economic vitality of the region. Working together, we have been able to ensure that the families who live in the East Hills neighborhood will have beautiful, safe homes, and will also soon be able to both work and shop nearby at the East Gate Commerce Center," said Santorum. 
   This development is an effort by Allegheny County and City of Pittsburgh officials to address social and economic issues in East Hills. The County has already dedicated $2 million to the demolition and redevelopment of the East Gate Commerce Center. 
   Residents are expected to begin occupation of the first completed units in February 2005. All of Phase I is expected to be completed by February 2006. The focal point of this project is a newly constructed 3,000 square foot community center. The center will house a kitchen, assembly room, fully equipped computer lab, fully equipped health/wellness center, office, conference area, storage, and restroom facilities. Aesthetic improvements to the property include converting most of the current parking areas into green space and new lighting fixtures will double the amount of current lighting to increase neighborhood safety. 
   Financing for the project includes $1.6 million in Low Income Housing Tax Credits from the Pennsylvania Housing Finance Agency, which helped leverage $14.5 million in Tax Credit Equity from PNC Bank. Other contributions include $1.29 million in HOME funds from the Allegheny County Department of Economic Development, $390,000 from the Urban Redevelopment Authority, $600,000 from the developer Telesis Corporation and $350,000 from the Senator's hometown, the municipality of Penn Hills. 
   "Through a unique collaboration among Allegheny County, the City of Pittsburgh, the Municipality of Penn Hills and the state, we have begun to turn this neighborhood around," said Onorato. "The investment provided at 2nd East Hills has already brought additional resources to the surrounding community. I am confident it will lead to greater economic stability and the ability for the East Gate Commerce Center to prosper once again."
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 