SEN. SANTORUM, CAMBRIA COUNTY COMMISSIONERS, PENN STATE COOPERATIVE EXTENSION OFFICE OF CAMBRIA COUNTY SPONSOR FEDERAL GRANT EDUCATION SEMINAR
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today co-hosted with the Penn State Cooperative Extension Office of Cambria County, and the Cambria County Commissioners, an educational seminar for community leaders, including township supervisors, borough elected officials and other community leaders.  
 The grant education seminar was held at Mt. Aloysius College in Cresson, PA. 
   The seminar focused on helping organizations and individuals to identify and secure grants through various agencies of the federal government. Representatives from U.S. General Services Administration (GSA), USDA Rural Development, Southern Alleghenies Planning and Development Commission, and Penn State University were on hand to provide information and address questions. 
   Senator Santorum issued the following comments about the grant seminar: 
   "I am pleased that my office could be of assistance in facilitating this grant education seminar. This was an excellent chance for community leaders to meet with representatives from various federal agencies and departments to discuss federal grant opportunities. 
   "I recognize the importance of federal funding for key programs and projects that keep Pennsylvania running, from farmland preservation programs to the Department of Housing and Urban Development Section 108 economic development loan guarantee program. 
   "One of the programs I am most proud to support is the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program. CDBG provides flexible federal funding to local community recipients who select the most appropriate programs to fight poverty or spur community and economic development in their counties, municipalities or cities. 
   "The federal funding that is available for rural programs and community development will help revitalize, renew and restore jobs and economic development in Pennsylvania."
   Contact: Robert Traynham, 202/224-0610.
 
 