SEN. SANTORUM PROPOSES CHANGES TO LOW-INCOME HOUSING TAX CREDIT PROGRAM
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today introduced legislation proposing a common sense correction of the Low Income Housing Tax Credit (LIHTC) program. The proposed changes to the student occupancy policy will allow single parents to pursue an education without fear of losing their housing and will allow working adults to complete the requirements for a high school education.  
   "Many low-income families are facing an unfortunate obstacle in the Low Income Housing Tax Credit program policy while trying to gain further education," said Senator Santorum. "Congress created this program to make affordable housing available to low-income families. These families should not have to choose between educating themselves and their children and losing their home. I encourage my colleagues to support these proposed changes to the LIHTC policy so that low-income families can achieve the education needed to obtain higher-paying jobs and eventually purchasing their own home." 
   Current law prohibits households made up entirely of full-time students from living in LIHTC apartments. However, in making this determination of a full-time student household, the law counts children in grades K-12, who are required to be in school. This requirement goes beyond the original intent that the LIHTC program not end up as cheap off-campus university student housing. These current occupancy restrictions for full-time student households are needlessly penalizing low-income families trying to get ahead. This bill updates the LIHTC program so that low-income families can remain in their apartments while they achieve the education necessary to land good jobs and eventually own a home or rent a market-rate apartment. 
   Senator Santorum's proposed changes have earned the support of the following organizations: Affordable Housing Tax Credit Coalition; Council for Affordable and Rural Housing; Institute of Real Estate Management; National Affordable Housing Management Association; National Apartment Association; National Association of Homebuilders; National Leased Housing Association; and National Multi Housing Council.
 
 