SENS. SANTORUM, LIEBERMAN INTRODUCE LEGISLATION TO HELP AMERICANS BUILD SAVINGS ACCOUNTS
  Sens. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference and Joe Lieberman (D-CT) today introduced the Savings for Working Families Act of 2005, which would expand Individual Development Accounts (IDA) for low-income families. IDAs provide low-income, working Americans the opportunity to build assets through matched savings accounts. Savings can then be used for the purchase of a home, to develop small businesses, or to pursue a post-secondary education.  
   "Individual Development Accounts are an innovative way for families to start savings accounts, watch them grow and accumulate, and use the accounts to pay for things like a new home, higher education or the growth of a small business," said Senator Santorum. "IDAs can help low-income families achieve the American Dream by providing economic education, asset accumulation, and most importantly financial stability." 
   IDA programs are implemented by community-based organizations in partnership with a financial institution that holds the deposits, and are funded by public and private sources. Several financial institutions across the United States are currently managing IDA programs. 
   "A home for your family, a business to call your own, an education that will lead to a fulfilling career - we call these things "The American Dream" and its power runs deep in our national psyche," Lieberman said. "However, for millions of working Americans it is nearly impossible to build up the financial assets they need to pursue these dreams. The Individual Development Account concept is a progressive idea that gives those with few financial resources a chance to build a nest egg and turn that dream into a reality." 
   Rev. Michelle Simmons, of Norristown, Pennsylvania, Founder and CEO of Why Not Prosper, Inc., shared her personal success story at today's press conference. Michelle overcame a drug addiction and homelessness and turned her life around with the help of Family Savings Accounts, a Pennsylvania program similar to IDAs, and the Women's Opportunity Resource Center (WORC) in Philadelphia. She saved enough to purchase a home and start her own business. Rev. Simmons is scheduled to testify at tomorrow's Senate Finance Subcommittee on Social Security and Family Policy hearing on "Building Assets for Low-Income Families." Senator Santorum will chair the hearing. 
   The fundamental element to the success of IDAs is financial literacy for the participants in the program. Information about repairing credit, reducing expenditures, avoiding predatory lenders, and accessing financial services helps IDA participants to reach savings goals and to integrate themselves into the mainstream economic system. 
   This bill, which mirrors the President's proposal, expands IDAs by creating 900,000 additional Individual Development Accounts for low-income families. Senators Santorum and Lieberman have championed this unique asset-building concept having introduced IDA expansion during the 108th Congress as part of the Charitable Aid, Recovery, and Empowerment (CARE) Act.
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610; Casey Aden-Wansbury, 202/224-0975.
 
 