FAIR ACCESS FOR ALL
 column:
   Recent events have shed light on the serious institutional problems that exist with America's lobbying industry. With a long history of reform here in the Congress and in concert with my colleague Senator John McCain, I have been charged with heading up the lobbying reform effort in the United States Senate. My goal is to reform the system in such a way to ensure that all citizens have equal access to their elected representatives.  
   The unfortunate truth is that the American people's faith in the honesty and integrity of our legislators, and of the legislative process as a whole, has been shaken. Congress, more than any other part of our government, is intended to be for the people - it's the people's branch. In their enduring wisdom, the founders of this nation constructed Congress so that its members are accountable directly to our constituents. In order to govern fairly and effectively, the faith in our elected officials must be restored. 
   I can't stress enough how important this is. If Americans don't trust their representatives, it means that, ultimately, they don't trust the government. Such mistrust is damaging to everyone involved - the government, members of Congress, and most importantly, the people we represent. But it has occurred before, and Congress has been able to address the problems. I have no doubt that we will again be able to now. 
   As a new member of the House of Representatives in 1991, I saw abuses of power that were astonishing. In response, I joined with six of my colleagues in what became known as 'The Gang of Seven,' a group that became known for exposing the House Bank scandal, where members of Congress were bouncing checks and covering it up. Subsequently, we closed the House Bank, investigated the House Restaurant and Post Office, reduced the franking budget and rid Congress of the House's leadership slush fund. Throughout my time in the House, I introduced a number of bills and resolutions intended to clean up Congress. The goal of these bills was to be mindful of taxpayer dollars and to force members to become more accessible and accountable to our constituents - after all, serving the needs of our constituency is the primary function of every member of Congress. 
   Right now, I am in the preliminary stages of putting together a comprehensive reform proposal. When looking at the issue of congressional reform, the first and most important step is to build a coalition of support, which is why I've turned to Senator McCain, a man whose record of congressional reform is well established. I'm looking forward to working with Senator McCain, as well as Senator Joe Lieberman, to devise a bipartisan plan that truly will reform lobbying practices in Washington. 
   Senator McCain's previous efforts at such reform focused heavily on transparency, to ensure that Congress is a transparent body so that everyone knows what is going on during the formation of policy. And as I testified at the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Government Oversight, transparency will continue to be the focus of any lobbying reform package. We will look at privately funded congressional travel, gifts, meals, the revolving door of access to members and staff and spouses of members, as well as their access to members' offices and the floor of the United States Senate. We will look at earmarks, direct appropriations of federal money that have ballooned in number in recent years. We will look at the 527 organizations that now have immense influence on campaign finance, and in turn, the outcome of elections. And hopefully, we can encourage the lobbying community to set parameters and establish self-regulatory organizations, getting into the details of the profession even more than we can. 
   Every citizen has the right to petition their government, and we will not alter what is an important and fundamental component of our democracy. While there are lobbyists for big corporations and very wealthy interests, there are also lobbyists for groups like the Boys and Girls Clubs, the Salvation Army, and small farmers. I feel very strongly that as we set up these regulations, we do not limit the ability of these smaller groups to plead their case to the members of Congress. But influence peddling has no place in our, or any, democratic system. The reform proposal we will develop over the next few months will decrease the opportunity for abuse and increase the consequences for those who exploit the system. And ultimately, it will ensure that Congress fulfills its intended role - doing the work of the American people.
 
 