SEN. SANTORUM COMMENTS ON PROPOSED MEDICARE REGULATIONS FOR MORE CHOICES, BETTER BENEFITS
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, made the following statement today regarding the Department of Health and Human Services' proposed regulations to provide millions of Medicare beneficiaries with a prescription drug benefit and more health plan choices.  
   "As a member of the Senate Finance Committee, which has jurisdiction over the Medicare program, I am very concerned about the health care needs of senior citizens in Pennsylvania and across our nation. Prescription drugs represent an ever-larger portion of health care expenses for seniors. 
   "The President and Congress made a promise to America's seniors to deliver a more comprehensive, personalized Medicare program, including the addition of a prescription drug benefit. Less than one year after the Medicare Modernization Act of 2003 passed with bipartisan support, we are continuing to live up to that promise. 
   "The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) yesterday proposed regulations to provide Medicare recipients with a voluntary prescription drug benefit and new health plan choices, including regional preferred provider organizations (PPOs), to provide better benefits, higher quality care, and substantial cost savings for Medicare beneficiaries. "These proposed policies represent the most significant progress towards guaranteed prescription drug coverage for America's seniors since President Bush signed the Medicare bill into law. 
   "When Medicare's comprehensive drug benefit takes effect in 2006, no senior will be without prescription drug coverage. Millions of seniors will receive coverage with no premium, no deductible, and no gap in coverage-and will pay no more than $5 for a prescription. Seniors who are the most in need will receive help in getting the medicines and care they need. 
   "I thank Secretary Tommy Thompson, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services Administrator Dr. Mark McClellan and his team for all their hard work on these proposed regulations. I look forward to working with them to finalize the regulations."
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 