SEN. SANTORUM TESTIFIES BEFORE SENATE SUBCOMMITTEE HEARING ON STEM CELL LEGISLATION; EMPHASIZES HIS COMMITMENT TO CURING DISEASE, PROTECTING LIFE
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today testified before the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies at a hearing examining the potential impact of S. 2754, the Alternative Pluripotent Stem Cell Therapies Enhancement Act.  
   Senator Santorum introduced S. 2754 last month with Senator Arlen Specter (R-PA), who chaired today's hearing. The legislation would further intensify research into non-controversial methods of deriving pluripotent stem cells to result in improved understanding of treatments for diseases and other adverse health conditions. 
   "Today's hearing is a meaningful opportunity to present some ideas in an area that has caused division here in the United States Senate about the ethical, moral, and scientific questions associated with embryonic stem cell research," said Senator Santorum. "The bill that I have introduced with Senator Specter is a common ground measure that seeks to intensify research into ways to derive pluripotent stem cell lines from alternative sources, ones that do not require the creation of human embryos for research purposes or discarding, destroying, or knowingly harming a human embryo or fetus." 
   Other witnesses testifying at today's hearing included: Dr. James Battey, Chairman of the National Institutes of Health Stem Cell Task Force; Dr. Stephen Strom of the University of Pittsburgh; and Dr. Alan Leshner of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. 
   The Alternative Pluripotent Stem Cell Therapies Enhancement Act would amend the Public Health Service Act to require the National Institutes of Health (NIH) to conduct and support basic and applied research to develop techniques for the isolation, derivation, production, or testing of stem cells that have pluripotent or embryonic-like qualities. The bill authorizes funding for this research for fiscal year 2007 through 2009. 
   The bill requires a yearly report to Congress on the activities being carried out and research being conducted during the fiscal year. Recognizing that supporters of the bill come from varying perspectives on the legitimacy of embryonic stem cell research, the bill contains a rule of construction saying that nothing in this bill shall be construed to affect any policy, guideline, or regulation regarding embryonic stem cell research, human cloning by somatic cell nuclear transfer, or any other research not specifically authorized. 
   The bill also directs the NIH to provide guidance on this research, including prioritizing research with the greatest potential for near-term clinical benefit; determining the extent to which specific techniques may require additional basic or animal research to ensure that any research involving human cells is consistent with the purpose of the bill; and taking into account the techniques outlined by the President's Council on Bioethics and any other techniques and research.
 
 