SEN. SANTORUM TOURS HELICOPTER MANUFACTURER, MEETS WITH HOSPITAL ADMINISTRATORS
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, traveled to Philadelphia today to tour the Agusta Aerospace Corporation and the Albert Einstein Medical Center Pathology Lab.  
   While at the Agusta Aerospace Corporation facilities, Senator Santorum met with Robert Budica, President and CEO; Vincent Genovese, EVP of Finance and Administration; and Massimo Pugnali, EVP of Business Development and Operations. 
   Agusta Aerospace Corporation manufactures helicopters that are used by the Coast Guard HITRON Stingray helicopter program. The helicopter program is a primary weapon in the war against drugs and terrorism. The single engine version known as the Koala will be manufactured at the Philadelphia plant beginning in October, which will create 50 new jobs for the region. The Koala is used by local and state police forces; it is also used by Emergency Response Teams. 
   "With support from Senator Santorum, we will increase the production of law enforcement helicopters and provide more job opportunities for people in Southeastern Pennsylvania," said Vincent Genovese. 
   Senator Santorum later traveled to the Albert Einstein Medical Center to tour the facilities at the Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine. Barry Freedman, President and CEO, Albert Einstein Healthcare Network; Susan Benini, Chief Operating Officer, Albert Einstein Healthcare Network; and Ierachiel Daskal, MD, PhD, Chairman, Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Albert Einstein Medical Center, joined the Senator. 
   "On behalf of the Pathology Department, I'd like to thank Senator Santorum for taking the time to visit us at Albert Einstein Medical Center. We appreciate his willingness to learn first-hand about pathology's critical issues, which directly affect patient care in the communities we serve," said Dr. Daskal. 
   "Albert Einstein Medical Center has recently focused their efforts on community outreach, ensuring that despite economic status, individuals have access to the highest quality of medicine," said Senator Santorum. "It is important that Pennsylvanians have access to quality health care. I will continue to work for legislation that makes this a reality."
   Contact: Kristen Vanderpool, 202/224-0610.
 
 