SEN. SANTORUM HOSTS NORTHAMPTON COUNTY PRESCRIPTION DRUG TOWN HALL MEETING
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, met today with Bethlehem Mayor John Callahan and members of the Hispanic Council at the Senior Centers of Bethlehem to discuss how the prescription drug discount card benefits low-income seniors. 
   "Low-income seniors receive immediate help through a $600 subsidy available on their Medicare-endorsed prescription drug discount card," said Senator Santorum. "Those who are eligible for low-income transitional assistance and additional discounts will see very large savings on their prescription drugs through their new Medicare-approved drug discount cards."
   The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) reports that Medicare beneficiaries with low incomes could save between 29 and 77 percent on the price of their brand name drugs and as much as 92 percent on generic drugs over the next seven months.
   Medicare has taken many steps to help low-income beneficiaries find out about and enroll in the discount card program. Using the "auto enrollment" process set up by CMS, beneficiaries in seven states, including Pennsylvania, will see their discounts and $600 credit take effect as early as June 1.
   Those who have a 2004 annual income less than $12,570 (single person), or less than $16,863 (married couple), may qualify for the $600 credit on the Medicare-approved drug discount card.
   Seniors who do not qualify for the low-income subsidy will still enjoy substantial savings; CMS predicts that seniors will save at least 10-17 percent on name-brand medicines, and 30-60 percent on generic drugs.
   Prescription drug discount cards work with PACE and PACENET. Seniors are encouraged to comparison shop in order to maximize their savings.
   For additional information call 1-800-MEDICARE or visit www.medicare.gov. CMS has announced several new customer service enhancements to meet the continuing high demand for information on how to get the most out of this new program including more Medicare operators, new training for operators, and the inclusion of voice messages to help speed up the process and refinements to the Medicare website to improve information services.
   Contact: Amy Hybels, 202/224-0610.
 
 