SEN. SANTORUM AT BAE GROUND SYSTEMS, CRISPUS ATTUCKS IN YORK
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today was in York to tour and meet with employees at BAE Ground Systems, where approximately 1,025 Pennsylvanians are employed. BAE Systems produces defense and aerospace products and services for air, land, and naval forces. BAE's Ground Systems Division designs and manufactures key U.S. military combat vehicles such as Bradley Combat Systems, the M109A6 Paladian self-propelled howitzer and the M88A2 Hercules recovery vehicle.
   "Pennsylvania plays a key role in supplying our men and women in uniform with the best equipment to conduct our nation's military missions," said Senator Santorum. "I am proud of the work performed by the employees at BAE Systems in York and I commend the company for their contribution to our growing economy and support of our servicemen and women." 
   Senator Santorum supported passage of the Fiscal Year (FY) 2006 National Defense Authorization Act, legislation that sought to provide improved force protection measures to the men and women of our military. Among other things, the bill authorized $344.2 million for up armored HMMWVs and wheeled vehicle add-on ballistic protection for our forces in Iraq and Afghanistan. The bill also offered significant benefits for Pennsylvania's military industrial base by infusing funds to companies manufacturing products or pursuing research on military-specific programs, including BAE Systems.
   On March 20, 2006, Senator Santorum sent a letter to the Senate Committee on Appropriations expressing concern over the Bush Administration's FY 2006 Supplemental Appropriations request for military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) directed a $3 billion reduction from the Department of Army's portion of the President's supplemental request for FY 2006.
   "The decision to reduce $3 billion from the Army's budget would be a detriment to both America's military personnel and our defense industrial base in Pennsylvania," said Senator Santorum. "While I recognize that the entire $3 billion reduction in Army programs is not likely to be restored by Congress, I have asked the Committee to provide sufficient resources so that crucial weapons and equipment systems can be produced for our military personnel serving in Iraq and Afghanistan."
   Later, Senator Santorum toured and met with board and community leaders at Crispus Attucks Association, a non-profit community-based organization in York that encourages community and economic development. Crispus Attucks also provides opportunities for individual growth including education programs, job training, and leadership development.
   "I want to congratulate Crispus Attucks on 75 years of service to the community and I am glad I had the opportunity to learn first-hand the work Crispus Attucks is doing at their Active Living Center for seniors, the YouthBuild Charter School, and the Early Learning Center for young children," said Senator Santorum. "Crispus Attucks is an organization in action, helping the community through so many diverse programs, including job training and education programs. It is important that we support those who show an interest in self-improvement and who seek to provide a safe, healthy and positive environment for their families."
   As a member of the U.S. Senate Finance Committee and Chairman of the Subcommittee on Social Security and Family Policy, Senator Santorum has supported non-profit organizations like Crispus Attucks through his work in the Senate. The Senator has been working in a bipartisan fashion on legislation that would provide incentives for charitable giving so non-profit organizations can better meet the numerous needs in our nation's communities. Senator Santorum is still working to pass the Charity, Aid, Recovery, and Empowerment (CARE) Act (S. 1780) and was pleased to see parts of the CARE Act included in the Tax Relief Act of 2005 (S. 2020) which the Senate passed in December.
   "We are pleased that Senator Santorum has taken an interest in the Crispus Attucks Association and our services in the community - particularly the YouthBuild Charter School, the Early Learning Center, and our Community Development work," said Carol Kauffman, Community Development Director at Crispus Attucks.
 
 