SEN. SANTORUM TOURS FLOOD-DAMAGED AREAS IN CARNEGIE, OAKDALE IN ALLEGHENY COUNTY
 Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today toured flood-damaged neighborhoods in Carnegie and Oakdale in Allegheny County.  
   Santorum walked down Main Street Carnegie and through the Oakdale business district to see firsthand the devastation caused by recent flooding from Tropical Depression Ivan. The Senator has written several letters to President Bush requesting federal disaster assistance for forty-seven counties in Pennsylvania. 
   "For some folks, the damage from Ivan is the worst destruction they have seen in their time living in southwestern Pennsylvania. Certainly this is some of the worst damage that I have seen - Mother Nature has taken a devastating toll on people's businesses and homes," said Santorum. "I have encouraged President Bush to provide federal relief through FEMA for areas like Carnegie and Oakdale that have been hit hard by this storm. I have been working to help individuals access the federal resources they need in this time of crisis and to help alleviate the economic burden of reconstruction in southwestern Pennsylvania." 
   The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and Pennsylvania Emergency Management Agency (PEMA) are opening seven Disaster Recovery Centers (DRC) in Pennsylvania. DRCs are opening in Allegheny, Blair and Northampton counties today, and tomorrow centers will open in Armstrong, Beaver, Dauphin and Washington counties. The Centers will be open daily from 10 a.m. to 7 p.m. The DRC in Allegheny County is located at: 
   Community College of Allegheny, Allegheny Campus Physical Education Building 845 Ridge Avenue Pittsburgh, PA 
   The DRC will be able to provide information regarding disaster housing assistance for families displaced from damaged homes, low-interest federal loans, and grants for those who are ineligible for loans. Individuals may talk with representatives about flood and homeowner's insurance, health and welfare assistance, well water testing, crisis counseling, and senior citizen services. Representatives from the Small Business Administration will also be available to help applicants complete low-interest disaster loan packets. 
   Before visiting a DRC, flood victims who sustained damage in declared counties should first register with FEMA by calling 1-800-621-FEMA (3362).
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 