SEN. SANTORUM PRAISES FINAL PASSAGE OF HIS LEGISLATION TO SECURE RAILROAD RETIREMENT BENEFITS
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today announced that the Railroad Retirement Technical Improvement Act of 2006 has passed. Senator Santorum introduced the bill, S. 3726, in July 2006. The Senate passed the House companion bill, H.R. 5074 this week. The President is expected to sign the bill into law soon.  
   "I am pleased to announce that this legislation has passed. I am proud to have sponsored this legislation that will bring peace of mind and financial security to thousands of Pennsylvania railroad retirees," said Senator Santorum. "Railroads and the hard working men and women who operate them have played a critical role in the history of Pennsylvania. It is essential that these Pennsylvanians, who have given so much to our Commonwealth, receive the benefits they were promised." 
   "Railroad Retirement Legislation passed by the Senate on September 26 will save the taxpayers countless millions of dollars while assuring railroad retirees the security of a government check. Senator Santorum deserves the thanks of all current and future railroad retirees for his tireless and successful leadership on this important legislation," said Ed Hamberger, President of Association of American Railroads. 
   The Railroad Retirement Technical Improvement Act directs the Treasury Department to remain the disbursing agent of railroad retirement benefits. Five years ago, the Railroad Retirement and Survivors' Improvement Act called for a nongovernmental financial institution to replace the Treasury Department as the disbursing agent of retirement benefits. However, providing a nongovernmental entity with the personal information of thousands of retirees opens up the specter of identity theft, makes many of the debt collection tools available to the Treasury ineffective, and costs the federal government an additional $2 million each year. Currently, Pennsylvania has over 40,000 retirees and over 12,000 railroad employees. 
   "The advantages of securing benefits for our retired railroad workers and saving taxpayer dollars are obvious," said Senator Santorum. "The maintenance of these benefits under the authority of the Treasury Department is a cost efficient and secure means of distributing benefits."
 
 