SENS. SANTORUM, BAYH INTRODUCE LEGISLATION THAT PROMOTES HEALTHY MARRIAGES, RESPONSIBLE FATHERHOOD
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, and Senator Evan Bayh (D-IN) recently introduced the Healthy Marriages and Responsible Fatherhood Act (S. 2830). This bill combines plans to encourage responsible fatherhood with an effort to promote and support stronger marriages. It also includes a six-month extension of welfare programs for those in need of assistance.  
   Senator Santorum will bring this bill to the Senate Floor this week to attempt to pass this important legislation. 
   "I urge my colleagues in the United States Senate to support this legislation, which will strengthen families and promote the importance of the role of the father in a child's life," Santorum said. "Research has shown that families in which fathers are involved have significantly better outcomes for children. Therefore, the best environment for children, whenever possible, is a mother and a father in a healthy marriage. This legislation also encourages states and communities to provide additional support and resources so that lower-income families can have the same opportunities to develop healthy marriages that will prosper and grow." 
   "Mothers - especially single mothers - are heroic in their efforts to raise our nation's children, but men must also take responsibility for their children and recognize the impact they have on their families' well-being," Senator Bayh said. "Our legislation will encourage stronger families and help them meet today's social challenges by supporting marriage and encouraging men to carry their share of the load." 
   Research indicates that children living without fathers are five times more likely to live in poverty and twice as likely to commit a violent crime, be involved with drugs or alcohol, and drop out of school. Young girls are also much more likely to become pregnant if they grow up without a father figure in their lives. Every year, the federal government spends $110 billion to treat drug and alcohol abuse, $8 billion a year on dropout prevention programs, and $7 billion on teenage pregnancy. As much as $105 billion has been spent on poverty relief programs for families and children in a single year. 
   The Healthy Marriages and Responsible Fatherhood Act will provide local community organizations, including faith-based groups, with grants to strengthen fragile families through programs designed to help men take responsibility for their children and families and to promote the formation of married, two-parent families. It will also provide funds for local media campaigns to promote the same goals as the grant program, and require all organizations that receive grant money to consult with a state or local domestic violence center. "I feel proud and blessed to be the father of six children who bring joy into my life every day," said Senator Santorum. "I thank Senator Bayh for working to help introduce this legislation that expresses the importance of healthy marriages and responsible fatherhood within the family structure, as well as within society."
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 