SEN. SANTORUM PRESENTS FUNDING FOR CHILDREN'S PLAYROOMS IN HOSPITALS IN WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA, DELIVERS KEYNOTE ADDRESS ON HEALTH SAVINGS ACCOUNTS
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today delivered funding to the Mario Lemieux Foundation in Pittsburgh. He also delivered the keynote address at the 2004 Health Savings Account Summit sponsored by The Allegheny Institute for Public Policy and The Society for the Education of Physicians and Patients.  
   Santorum traveled to Magee Womens Hospital of UPMC to present a check for $200,000 to the Mario Lemieux Foundation to build new children's playrooms and renovate current playrooms located within emergency rooms in area hospitals. The following emergency room hospitals will benefit from this project: UPMC McKeesport Hospital (McKeesport), Somerset County Hospital (Somerset), St. Clair Hospital (Upper St. Clair), and Mercy Hospital (Pittsburgh). 
   The funding Santorum worked to secure is from the Department of Health and Human Services through the fiscal year 2004 Omnibus Appropriations bill passed in January. Mario Lemieux, Chairman of the Board of the Mario Lemieux Foundation, and Nathalie Lemieux, Vice President of the Foundation, joined the Senator. 
   "This is a dream come true. To have the support of someone as influential and prominent as Senator Santorum is truly invaluable to our organization. This grant will enable us to construct four more emergency playrooms in western Pennsylvania," said Nathalie Lemieux, Vice President of the Mario Lemieux Foundation. 
   The Foundation's Playroom Project seeks to address an issue that many parents and caregivers with more than one child face when they have to enter the hospital for appointments, emergency care, or special treatment. Mario and Nathalie Lemieux experienced this problem firsthand when their son was treated in the neonatal unit. When the Lemieuxs spent time at the hospital there was nothing for their young daughters to do while they waited. The playrooms offer a place just outside the emergency room and other areas of the hospital for children to play, while their parents attend to the medical needs at hand. 
   "I am pleased to see that this funding will help to build new playrooms and renovate existing playrooms," said Santorum. "When families are faced with a health crisis it is important that parents are able to attend to the needs of all of their children. These playrooms provide parents with the opportunity to be with a child who is receiving medical attention, while having their minds at ease about the care of their other children." 
   Today Santorum also delivered the keynote address at the 2004 Health Savings Account Summit sponsored by The Allegheny Institute for Public Policy and The Society for the Education of Physicians and Patients at the Omni William Penn Hotel. 
   "Health Savings Accounts offer triple tax benefits for individuals. Your money is not taxed going into the account, it is not taxed as it grows in the account and it is not taxed when it is withdrawn from the account, as long as it is used for medical or health expenses," said Santorum. 
   Health Savings Accounts give consumers a stake in how their health care dollars are spent and allow more freedom, choice, and responsibility for health care decisions. Also known as "medical IRAs," these accounts create an opportunity for employees and employers to put money aside to be spent tax-free as long as it is spent on health care. 
   "Most importantly, Health Savings Accounts empower individuals in their health care decisions and give them an asset that they own, control and can use for their health care as they grow older," said Santorum. "If an individual lives a healthy lifestyle, takes advantage of preventive care, and does not ignore health warning signs until significant hospitalization or surgery is necessary, the HSA continues to grow tax-free, as a nest egg for the future," said Santorum.
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610. 
 
 