SEN. SANTORUM ADDRESSES DELEGATES AT 97TH ANNUAL PENNSYLVANIA PARENT TEACHER ASSOCIATION CONVENTION
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA) today was in Coraopolis at the Pittsburgh Airport Marriott. Sen. Santorum spoke to delegates from across Pennsylvania at the 97th annual Pennsylvania Parent Teacher Association (PTA) Convention. 
   "It was an honor to have Senator Santorum address our delegates. The group enjoyed hearing that he puts an emphasis on family and on parental involvement," said Christine Munchak, President of the Pennsylvania PTA.
   Pennsylvania PTA is a child advocacy organization dedicated to promoting the welfare of children and speaking on their behalf. Membership enrollment in the state PTA consists of more than 99,000 parents, but also teachers, school administrators, and anyone interested in the welfare of children.
   Last year Senator Santorum introduced the Schools Safely Acquiring Faculty Excellence (SAFE) Act. This legislation would give school districts access to a nationwide criminal information system that would provide the background information needed to ensure that only qualified individuals work with and around our children. The Schools SAFE Act would remove troubling barriers that too often have prevented schools from accessing complete information regarding a potential employee's background.
   "As the father of six children, I share Pennsylvania parents' concerns about the security and safety of our nation's schools. Parents deserve to know the kind of individuals who spend the bulk of the day in a classroom with their children. That is why it is of the utmost importance that we have access to complete information regarding the background of every person employed to work with students at a public school," said Senator Santorum. "The Schools SAFE Act would provide parents and teachers across the country with the peace of mind that comes with knowing that individuals working with our children on a daily basis are fit to do so."
   The Senator also recently introduced the Securing Excellence in Education for Our Kids (SEEK) in Math and Science Act to strengthen and improve math and science education in America's classrooms so our nation can continue to sustain a highly competitive workforce.
   "This important legislation seeks to ensure that our students are receiving a quality education in math and science-the quality education that we expect as parents and demand as a nation seeking to sustain our competitive edge," said Senator Santorum.
   The National Academy of Sciences' October 2005 report, Rising Above the Gathering Storm, found that U.S. twelfth graders recently performed below the international average for twenty-one countries on a test of general knowledge in math and science. Simultaneously, America is graduating fewer engineers than our global competitors and math graduation statistics are just as troubling.
   "I am very concerned that America's students are not keeping pace with their international peers," said Senator Santorum. "While America's fourth graders are among the top students in the world in math and science, by twelfth grade, our students are scoring near the bottom of all industrialized nations. We need to make sure that our students are aware of and prepared for a full range of rewarding opportunities in math, science, engineering, and technology. We must also ensure that our teachers have the resources and background needed to prepare our students for success in these areas."
 
 