SEN. SANTORUM PRESIDES OVER HEARING ON BUILDING ASSETS FOR LOW-INCOME FAMILIES
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today presided over a hearing of the Senate Finance Subcommittee on Social Security and Family Policy regarding asset building and ownership for low-income families. As Chairman of this Subcommittee, Sen. Santorum presided over the hearing.  
   "I would like to thank my colleagues on the Subcommittee for joining me and this distinguished panel of witnesses to take a closer look at the critical question of what policies best encourage the building of assets for low-income families," said Senator Santorum. "Many Pennsylvanians and families throughout America are facing savings and asset challenges. This is an appropriate time to examine existing proposals, bipartisan legislation, and additional ideas to improve and facilitate low-income savings." 
   Rev. Michelle Simmons, a Women's Opportunity Resource Center (WORC) account holder from Norristown and Dorothy Beale, of Philadelphia, also a WORC account holder, testified before the Subcommittee. They shared their experiences with savings and asset building with the Subcommittee. 
   "I appreciate Rev. Simmons and Ms. Beale for appearing before the Subcommittee today," said Senator Santorum. "Their stories of how faith, hard work, the charitable community, and strategic use of government incentives through Individual Development Accounts (IDAs) or Family Savings Accounts (FSAs), as they are called in Pennsylvania, can make a significant difference in people's lives." 
   During her testimony, Rev. Simmons explained her story and her positive experience with asset building. 
   "I wanted something viable so I started to tell of my goals and my dreams and someone told me about the Women's Opportunity Resource Center...I went there and that's where I learned about FSAs and the program. I was really encouraged...After ten years of being in prison somebody told me if you are going to help yourself, we are going to give you something else to help you. They said, 'What would you like to do?' and I said that I want my own house and they said, 'here is a program, if you begin to save then we are going to help you with your savings.' FSA is so great...I learned how to save." 
   Senator Santorum's interest in financial education and asset building for low-income families prompted him to recently initiate the bipartisan and bicameral Congressional Savings and Ownership Caucus which will explore, debate, and advance policies for the many Americans who face an ongoing savings and assets crisis. One third of all Americans have no assets available for investment, and another fifth have only negligible assets. The United States household savings rate lags far behind that of other industrial nations, constraining national economic growth and keeping many Americans from entering the economic mainstream by buying a house, obtaining an adequate education, or starting a business. 
   Senator Santorum, along with Senator Joe Lieberman (D-CT), yesterday introduced the Savings for Working Families Act of 2005, which would expand Individual Development Accounts (IDAs) for low-income families. IDAs provide low-income, working Americans the opportunity to build assets through matched savings accounts. Savings can then be used for the purchase of a home, to develop a small business, or to pursue a post-secondary education. 
   "IDAs are one of the most promising tools that enable low-income American families to save, build assets, and enter the financial mainstream," said Senator Santorum. 
   Another recent bipartisan bill cosponsored by Senator Santorum is the "The America Saving for Personal Investment, Retirement, and Education (ASPIRE) Act of 2005." Senator Santorum introduced this bill along with Senators Jon Corzine (D-NJ), Chuck Schumer (D-NY) and Jim DeMint (R-SC). The bill creates a Kids Investment and Development Savings (KIDS) Account for every child at birth and creates a new opportunity for the children of low-income Americans to build assets and wealth. Once established, families and others will be allowed to contribute additional resources into these accounts. KIDS Accounts allow for contributions up to $1,000 a year. These voluntary contributions will be after-tax and will not be tax deductible, but account earnings will be tax free. To further encourage investment, children in households earning below the national median income will be eligible to receive a dollar-for-dollar match on the first $500 contributed to the account each year. The automatic initial government contribution of $500 must eventually be paid back. 
   "This bill will help give younger individuals, especially low-income Americans, a sound financial start to begin their adult life," said Senator Santorum. "This legislation could be a significant and strategic step forward in the effort to expand asset opportunities to all Americans, and lower-income Americans in particular." 
   A photo from the hearing is available at: 
  http://santorum.senate.gov/public/index.cfm?FuseAction=Images.View&File_id=84&ImageGallery_id=1 
   Video clip is available at: 
  http://santorum.senate.gov/public/index.cfm?FuseAction=PressOffice.VideoClips&CFID=588862&CFTOKEN=37239414
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 