SENS. SANTORUM, SPECTER ANNOUNCE FUNDING TO PREVENT YOUTH VIOLENCE
  Sens. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, and Arlen Specter (R-PA), a senior member of the U.S. Senate Appropriations Committee, announced today that the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has awarded The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia $851,383 in funding to establish an Urban Partnership Academic Center (U-PACE) in order to prevent youth violence.  
   "This important funding being awarded to the Children's Hospital of Philadelphia is a welcomed blessing to the City of Philadelphia," said Senator Santorum. "It is my hope that the Urban Partnership Academic Center will work to drastically reduce youth violence." 
   "I am pleased that the Center for Disease Control and Prevention has awarded this important federal funding to The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia," Senator Specter said. "The research and programmatic activities offered by the Urban Partnership Academic Center will contribute to the reduction of youth violence in the Philadelphia community where rates remain unacceptably high." 
   In June of 2005, Senators Santorum and Specter convened a field hearing in Philadelphia to examine the issue of youth violence. Additionally, in the FY06 Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations bill Senators Santorum and Specter secured language which helped direct this important funding to Philadelphia. 
   According to data from CDC, homicide is the second leading cause of death among young people ages 10 to 24. In addition, violence disproportionately affects youth living in urban communities. In Philadelphia, for example, almost two thirds of the perpetrators and 40 percent of the victims of homicides are 24 years old or younger. The homicide rate among Philadelphia youth is five times higher than the national average. 
   The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia Urban Partnership Academic Center will work to build beneficial collaborations among health scientists, social scientists, and the targeted Philadelphia community to reduce the incidence of youth violence, injury and death.
 
 