SEN. SANTORUM MEETS WITH SENIORS IN MCKEAN, FOREST COUNTIES TO DISCUSS MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG DISCOUNT CARD BENEFIT
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, traveled to McKean and Forest counties today to meet with seniors to discuss the Medicare Prescription Drug Card Benefit which offers relief for eligible seniors who struggle with limited budgets and the high costs of medicines, providing savings until the full Medicare prescription drug benefits rolls out in 2006.  
   The Senator first traveled to the Greater Bradford Senior Center in Bradford, McKean County. State Rep. Martin Causer (R-67th District); Tom Causer, McKean County Commissioner; and John Egbert, McKean County Commissioner joined the Senator. 
   Senator Santorum then traveled to the Marienville Senior Center in Marienville, Forest County where he was joined by State Senator Mary Jo White (R-21st District); Norm Wimer, Forest County Commissioner; Basil Huffman, Forest County Commissioner; and Jim Parrett, Forest County Commissioner. 
   At both senior centers Senator Santorum discussed the benefits and choices offered by the Medicare Prescription Drug Discount Card created through the bipartisan Medicare Modernization Act of 2003, signed into law by President Bush in November 2003. 
   "For the first time, millions of U.S. seniors will have a prescription drug benefit that offers affordable prescription drugs, extra savings to those with low incomes and more personalized choices," said Senator Santorum. "This is not a one-size-fits all program; the Medicare Prescription Drug Card program is personalized with many choices depending on your individual drug and financial needs." 
   It is expected that when the full benefit rolls out in 2006, about 2.1 million Medicare beneficiaries in Pennsylvania will have access to a Medicare Prescription Drug Card Benefit. During the two-year interim it is estimated that more than 370,000 Pennsylvania seniors are eligible to participate in the Transitional Assistance Program. 
   Seniors are eligible for the Transitional Assistance Program if they have Medicare and do not have outpatient prescription drugs under a State Medicaid Program. Seniors whose annual income is below $12,570 for a single person and $16,863 for a married couple are also eligible for the $600 transitional assistance credit, which provides additional assistance in lowering the cost of prescription drugs. It is important to note that Prescription Drug Discount Cards work with PACE and PACENET. 
   "I encourage seniors to compare the various prescription drug cards and find the one that best meets their personal needs. By contacting the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services at 1-800-MEDICARE or www.medicare.gov you can learn more specific details about the choices that are available," said Senator Santorum. "For example a single resident of McKean or Forest County on Medicare, between the ages of 65 and 75, with a monthly income of $1,000 - $3,000 and taking Celebrex and Lipitor will find that there are many choices offered by the Medicare Prescription Drug Card Benefit. Based on this sample personal information there are more than 30 cards that are accepted at pharmacies within a 10-mile radius of the Greater Bradford Senior Center and the Marienville Senior Center respectively." 
   It is important to note that different cards recognized by the Medicare Prescription Drug Card Program have different features from which to choose - including varying enrollment fees, discounts off prescription drugs, proximity of the pharmacy to your home and the option of getting prescription drugs at a pharmacy or through mail order. 
   To access more information on the Medicare Prescription Drug Benefit contact The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) at 1-800-MEDICARE or www.medicare.gov; the Pennsylvania Department of Aging at 717-783-1550 or www.aging.state.pa.us; or The Access to Benefits Coalition at www.accesstobenefits.org.
   Contact: Kristen Vanderpool, 202/224-0610.
 
 