SEN. SANTORUM COMMENTS ON SENATE PASSAGE OF ENERGY BILL
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, commented on the Senate passage of the Energy Bill. The Energy Policy Act of 2005 passed the Senate today by a vote of 85 to 12 with the strong support of Sen. Santorum.  
   "I am proud that Congress is on the road to passing our nation's first comprehensive energy policy in over a decade," said Senator Santorum. "This bill provides our nation with a multifaceted approach to dealing with the serious energy concerns facing our nation. I believe that through this balanced approach, our nation will become less dependent on other nations to satisfy our energy needs in an environmentally responsible manner." 
   The Energy Policy Act of 2005 maintains a balance between traditional and alternative fuels, energy conservation and efficiency, and research and development. Specifically, the legislation directs the President to develop and implement measures to reduce the total demand for petroleum by one million barrels per day, while establishing energy conservation standards and emphasizing alternative sources of power such as nuclear, clean coal, and hydrogen. 
   Additionally, the Energy Policy Act of 2005 promotes several key initiatives that will lead our nation toward greater energy independence. Among the programs authorized is the Clean Coal Power Initiative, which would provide $200 million annually to be applied to clean coal research in coal gasification and other combustion technologies. 
   "Because Pennsylvania has a rich coal heritage and continues to play an instrumental role in supplying our nation with its greatest source of domestic fuel, I am pleased that our Commonwealth will be able to showcase its many resources and innovations through programs such as the Clean Coal Power Initiative," said Senator Santorum. "The promise of clean coal technologies has the potential of helping our nation break from our dependence on foreign sources of energy." 
   The electricity title of the bill would also implement policies that would reduce regulatory uncertainty, promote transmission infrastructure development and security, and increase consumer protections. 
   "In the aftermath the Northeast blackout, the inclusion of such standards provides greater reliability and security for Pennsylvania's consumers who live in one of the nation's busiest electrical grids," said Senator Santorum.
   Contact: Robert Traynham, 202/224-0610.
 
 