SEN. SANTORUM PRESENTS FUNDING TO NORTHWESTERN PENNSYLVANIA OPTICAL CLINIC, IMPACT WARREN IN WARREN COUNTY
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, presented federal funding to two organizations today at the Warren Area Agency on Aging in Warren, Warren County.  
   The NorthWestern Pennsylvania Optical Clinic (NWPOC) was presented a check for $50,000 from fiscal year 2004 appropriations. In August 2001, Rick Wenzel launched the nonprofit NWPOC and opened the first clinic in Erie County. Since that time NWPOC has opened nineteen clinics serving seventeen counties, doing so with donations, partnerships, and the support of other nonprofits. 
   "I am pleased that we were able to secure this funding for the NorthWestern Pennsylvania Optical Clinic. The funding secured through the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) provides access for financially challenged individuals in Warren County to have the quality prescription eyewear they need," said Senator Santorum. 
   NWPOC is dedicated to providing low cost eyewear to those with limited or fixed incomes, such as seniors, veterans and individuals with disabilities. Utilizing frame donations from many leading companies, the NWPOC is able to keep the cost of new eyewear at a flat rate of $36.00. 
   "With Senator Santorum's help in obtaining the HRSA grant will come twenty more clinic locations in Pennsylvania," said Rick Wenzel, President, NWPOC. "It is the hope of NWPOC to have locations in all Pennsylvania counties by 2006. Currently, the NWPOC has plans to open new clinics in Bedford, Huntington, Lycoming, Venango, and Clarion counties." 
   The IMPACT Warren project also received federal funding. Senator Santorum worked to secure $1.5 million through the Federal Transit Administration to be invested in the intermodal transportation facility portion of the project to revitalize downtown Warren. 
   "The IMPACT Warren project is an ideal model of a public/private partnership aimed at the revitalization of a rural community," said Senator Santorum. "The intermodal transportation component of the revitalization project will include upgrades and renovations to the bus facility, bike paths and roads in Warren." 
   "The Warren County Transit Authority is deeply gracious to Senator Santorum for all of his genuine efforts to secure federal funding for our new transit facility project," said John Aldrich, Executive Director, Warren County Transit Authority. "The efforts of Senator Santorum will allow the Warren County Transit Authority to have a viable presence in the community and provide a valuable asset to the residents of Warren County for many years to come."
   Contact: Kristen Vanderpool, 202/224-0610.
 
 