SEN. SANTORUM SECURES TWO ROUNDS OF FUNDING FOR BETHESDA CHILDREN'S HOME IN ERIE COUNTY
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today attended the Bethesda Children's Home Boxing Club Open House at Bethesda Place in Erie County.  
   Senator Santorum presented a $150,000 check when he visited the Bethesda Children's Home in August 2003. This funding was used to pay for the regulation boxing ring needed to create the Bethesda Boxing Club. The boxing program was established as an alternative activity to drugs, alcohol or crime activities in the neighborhood. 
   "This is truly a great joy to return to the Bethesda Children's Home and see the positive results of the boxing program, less than a year after presenting funding for the boxing ring," said Senator Santorum. "This boxing program is a true benefit to the kids and to the larger community. The program instills children with a sense of self esteem, self respect and confidence, and it teaches kids to work together as a team to solve problems." 
   Senator Santorum shares the vision of the Bethesda Children's Home and the importance of providing Pennsylvania's children with social, emotional, spiritual and behavioral support and encouragement. The skills learned from programs like the Boxing Club help children grow to become productive adults who give back to the community in a positive way. 
   "Bethesda Children's Home is grateful to Senator Santorum for the leadership he has shown in fighting to preserve families in this country and in particular his concern for the well being of youth across America," said Gene Wisniski, Executive Director, Bethesda Children's Home. "With Senator Santorum's help, Bethesda was able to establish unique and innovative programs that will change the way we help and work with troubled youth throughout the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania." 
   While attending the open house, which featured Joe Frazier, former World Heavyweight Boxing Champion, the Senator presented a second round of funding to the Bethesda Children's Home. The $50,000 appropriation was secured through the FY 2004 Omnibus Appropriations Bill and will be used for an entrepreneurial landscaping and horticulture program. 
   Senator Santorum said, "The program will include educational components in areas such as biology, chemistry, math and business; it will also include a retail sales component. Students will sell the products they grow, which will provide them with the opportunity to participate in the entrepreneurial process."
   Contact: Kristen Vanderpool, 202/224-0610.
 
 