SEN. SANTORUM INTRODUCES TELEPHONE EXCISE TAX REPEAL ACT OF 2005
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, held a press conference today to introduce the Telephone Excise Tax Repeal Act of 2005. Sen. Santorum was joined by Sens. Mike Crapo (R-ID) and Gordon Smith (R-OR) who are original cosponsors of the legislation.  
   "Common sense dictates that repeal of the telephone excise tax is long overdue," said Senator Santorum. "Communication is not a luxury. It has become part of the basic fabric of our social and economic life. The growth of the technologies on which communications rides and the widespread use of communications in general should be encouraged and not taxed. The telephone tax is a regressive, inequitable, inefficient and unnecessary tax that Congressional policy makers have found to serve no rational policy purpose. I strongly urge my Senate colleagues to join me in supporting the repeal of the telephone excise tax." 
   The telephone excise tax began being charged on long distance service as a result of the Spanish American War Act of 1898. At that time, only the wealthy had telephones, the U.S. had no income tax, and the country relied on excise taxes to fund the war. Although created to cover the war expenses, the revenue from the telephone excise tax now goes into the general receipts of the U.S. Treasury and is not earmarked for any particular government function or service. In 1990, and just before the tax was set to expire, Congress made the tax permanent at 3 percent of local and long distance services. 
   The Joint Committee on Taxation stated in its January 2005 report "there is no compelling policy argument for imposing taxes on communications services." The Congressional Budget Office (CBO) took this a step further by stating in February 2005 that the tax "has harmful effects on economic policy." 
   The Telephone Excise Tax Repeal Act of 2005 is considered a regressive tax because lower-income individuals spend a higher percentage of their income on the taxed item than those with higher-incomes. A 1987 study by the CBO concluded that excise taxes on telephone service had a greater impact on low-income families than did excise taxes on alcoholic beverages and tobacco products. Studies have shown that individuals and families with income less than $10,000 spend almost 10 percent of their income on telephone bills, while individuals and families earning $50,000 spend only two percent of their income for telephone service.
   Contact: Robert Traynham, 202/224-0610.
 
 