SEN. SANTORUM CONTINUES EFFORTS TO SECURE U.S. BORDERS
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today participated in a press conference with fellow Senate colleagues to emphasize the importance of a "border security first" approach to immigration reform. Sen. Santorum discussed his recently introduced legislation, the Border Security First Act of 2006. Sens. Johnny Isakson (R-GA), Lamar Alexander (R-TN), Saxby Chambliss (R-GA), Jeff Sessions (R-AL), John Thune (R-SD), and David Vitter (R-LA) took part in today's press conference.  
   "Throughout the debate on immigration reform, I have consistently stated that the first thing we must do is secure our nation's borders," said Senator Santorum. "The Senate recently passed the Comprehensive Immigration Reform Act of 2006, which I did not support for a number of reasons - mainly because it did not appropriately address the problem at hand. While the House and Senate are working to come to an agreement on the broader issues in the immigration bill, I introduced the Border Security First Act, S. 3564, because our borders must be secured now. In the post 9/11 world in which we live, our national security depends on our border security. We need to know who is coming into our country, where they are from, and what they are doing here. I urge my colleagues in both the House and Senate to move this bill so we can secure our borders while we work on the remaining issues related to illegal immigration." 
   The Border Security First Act will provide increased assets for controlling the United States borders including more inspectors, marshals, and border patrol agents on both the northern and southern borders. The bill calls for increased surveillance, new checkpoints and ports of entry, and increased fencing and vehicle barriers - all in an effort to control the U.S. borders. 
   The Border Security First Act calls for a comprehensive national strategy for border security, information exchange between agencies, increasing the capacity to train border patrol agents and combating human smuggling. The bill would enhance initiatives on biometric data, secure communications for border patrol agents, and provide Customs and Border protection officers with additional training and identifying fraudulent documents. 
   Additionally, the Border Security First Act would temporarily deploy the National Guard to support the border patrol in securing our southern land border. The bill would also increase punishment for the construction of border tunnels or passages and provide relief for cities, counties and states dealing with increased costs because of illegal immigration. 
   Senator Santorum toured the border between the United States and Mexico in May to witness firsthand the border security problem that the U.S. is currently facing.
   Contact: Robert Traynham, 202/224-0610.
 
 