SEN. SANTORUM TO OBSERVE MOMENT OF SILENCE IN HONOR OF VETERANS, WELCOMES LOCAL VETERANS TO WWII MEMORIAL IN WASHINGTON
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, and his family will observe a moment of silence on Memorial Day, Monday May 31 in solemn respect of the men and women who have paid the ultimate price for our freedom. The National Moment of Remembrance is a congressionally mandated moment of silence at 3:00 pm on Memorial Day, to honor all those who have died fighting for freedom from the Revolutionary War to the present. 
   "Memorial Day is a time for reflection and remembrance," said Senator Santorum. "More often than not the true essence of Memorial Day seems to be lost in the idea of a day off, or the mark of the opening of local swimming pools. We must, as a nation, come together to give thanks and honor those men and women who gave their lives in the defense of our country."
   Senator Santorum recently cosponsored a resolution introduced by Senator Bob Graham (D-FL) concerning the dedication of the National World War II Memorial in Washington, DC. The Memorial opened to the public on April 29, 2004 exactly one month before the official dedication on May 29. The resolution seeks to recognize the actions of all American citizens during World War II.
   Senator Santorum also welcomes a group of Pennsylvania veterans who will be attending the WWII Memorial's dedication over Memorial Day weekend. A trip sponsored by Pennsylvania State Senator Don White (R-Indiana), will enable veterans of all ages to be present when the ceremony takes place. One of those veterans is Richard Dougan, who received stateside training in the Air Force during World War II and served 25 years in the Reserves.
   "Although I am not a combat veteran I feel that I am a survivor of World War II," said Mr. Dougan. "I view myself as a surrogate for those veterans that cannot attend the dedication. This memorial is a long time coming. The freedom of this country is built on the regular payment of blood by the military, and I believe more people have to recognize the sacrifices of those who have died for our freedoms. This monument is a way of paying homage to those that gave their last full measure of devotion, and I am honored to be a part of the dedication."
   "Our nation is and always will be eternally indebted to the men and women who served our nation during World War II," said Senator Santorum. "Whether it was the four hundred thousand Americans that died, the sixteen million that served in the Armed Forces, or the countless numbers that supported the war effort at home, we as Americans owe the 'Greatest Generation' that ever lived our deepest and sincere gratitude."
   Contact: Amy Hybels and Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 