A THANKSGIVING MESSAGE
  Next Thursday is Thanksgiving, a day in which we gather with our families, friends, and neighbors to express our thanks for all we have been fortunate enough to receive throughout the year. It is also a time to celebrate the history of our nation, to remember those first brave men and women who traveled across the ocean to the New World and established the community foundation that, ultimately, became America. As you join with your families this week to enjoy all that comes with this quintessential American day, I'd like to share with you some of the things for which I am grateful.  
   First and foremost, I am extremely thankful for the faith and trust that you, the residents of Pennsylvania, have placed in me by twice asking me to represent you in the United States Senate. Besides being a husband and father of six magnificent children, this has been one of the greatest privileges of my life. 
   With this trust comes both great challenges and great opportunities. Pennsylvania is one of the most diverse states in the nation, comprised of individuals from all types of backgrounds and with different interests, concerns, and livelihoods. The challenge is in ensuring that the voice of every one of these individuals is heard. From farmers, to small business owners, to seniors and sportsmen - every Pennsylvanian deserves representation in the United States Senate, and I am thankful that you have entrusted me with the responsibility of fighting for your priorities. 
   Being a United States Senator from Pennsylvania has also given me the opportunity to engage, and hopefully make a difference, in some of the most important issues facing America today. Americans have a responsibility to the members of our community who are in need, and as we enjoy Thanksgiving and the rest of the holiday season, we must all remain conscious of those who are less fortunate than ourselves. My time in the Senate has presented me with the opportunity to interact with many Americans who struggle with the financial and emotional burden of extreme poverty. It has given me the unique chance to work with those in poverty-stricken communities as they aspire to a better life. This holiday season, I am extremely grateful to the millions of Americans who have moved from welfare to work, to those who have embraced educational, counseling, and job training services and to the faith-based and community organizations that serve them. And I am grateful that I have the opportunity to further strengthen Pennsylvania's communities and assist those in need. 
   As I have traveled throughout the Commonwealth these last eleven years, visiting each Pennsylvania county every year, I have been fortunate to meet thousands of Pennsylvania residents. Through these meetings, I have learned much about those I have the good fortune to represent and how I can best do my job. These men and women have reinforced my belief that, without question, there is no state that better exemplifies the graciousness and generosity of the American spirit than Pennsylvania. I have been lucky to represent such a constituency. 
   Finally, as we are safe at home this holiday season, we must all be mindful of the men and women in uniform who are not. Many of these brave soldiers, sailors, airmen and Marines are on the other side of the globe, protecting the freedoms that we hold so dear. America is fortunate to be represented by the finest, most qualified, and most committed voluntary fighting force in the world. They are across the world, fighting to make America stronger and the world a better, safer place - we owe them, and their families, a debt of gratitude that can never be repaid. 
   Throughout the next few weeks, I hope you each have the opportunity to be with those you love - spending time with our families and friends is what truly makes this time of year so special. Have a wonderful Thanksgiving and a safe, happy, and healthy holiday season. God Bless.
 
 