SEN. SANTORUM PRAISES HOUSE PASSAGE OF IRAN FREEDOM AND SUPPORT ACT
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today praised the U.S. House of Representatives for passing H.R. 6198, the Iran Freedom and Support Act. The bipartisan legislation holds the current regime in Iran accountable for its threatening behavior and supports a transition to democracy in Iran. Earlier today, Sen. Santorum along with Majority Leader Frist (R-TN) and Sens. John Cornyn (R-TX) and Bill Nelson (D-FL), introduced the Senate version of the bill, S. 3971, the Iran Freedom and Support Act. Sen. Santorum is hopeful that the Senate acts on this bill as soon as possible.  
   The bipartisan legislation provides for key enhancements to the Iran-Libya Sanctions Act (ILSA) which is set to expire at the end of this week. Additionally, the bill authorizes assistance to pro-democracy groups inside and outside Iran and provides additional authorities the necessary tools to stop money laundering efforts that support weapons of mass destruction (WMD) proliferation. The bipartisan House bill is sponsored by Representatives Ileane Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL-18) and Tom Lantos (D-CA-12). 
   "I am very pleased that this critical piece of legislation was passed by my colleagues in the House," said Senator Santorum. "Congress is moving forward in a constructive manner to encourage a peaceful transition to democracy in Iran and to ensure that ILSA does not expire. I encourage my Senate colleagues to support passage of this bill because it includes significant enhancements that will aid our efforts to support the democratic movement inside Iran." 
   "Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad routinely issues statements of hate against the United States, Israel, and the Jewish people. We must support efforts to transition to democracy so that the government of Iran can no longer continue to bully the rest of the world. Iran is a threat to America, our allies, and to the stability of the international community." Senator Santorum continued. 
   The bill includes many provisions from S. 333, also called the Iran Freedom and Support Act, which Senator Santorum introduced in February 2005.
 
 