SEN. SANTORUM INTRODUCES BIPARTISAN LEGISLATION TO HELP EXPAND SPECIAL OLYMPICS
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today introduced bipartisan legislation, The Special Olympics Sports and Empowerment Act of 2004, which will allow more children and adults with intellectual disabilities to participate in the worldwide Special Olympics.  
   Along with Senator Harry Reid (D-NV), Senator Santorum has introduced legislation that will create a five-year authorization for Special Olympics with $15 million authorized for Fiscal Year 2005. Specifically, this funding will expand the number of participants and programs around the world, increase the volunteer base, and work to combat the prejudice and stigmatization that many individuals with disabilities face. The House has also introduced similar legislation, sponsored by Congressman Roy Blunt (R-MO) and Congressman Steny Hoyer (D-MD). 
   "I would like to thank Senator Reid and Congressmen Blunt and Hoyer for their support of legislation that will enable more adults and children around the world to take part in the celebration of accomplishment, good sportsmanship and camaraderie as a Special Olympics athlete," said Santorum. "Under the athletic motto, 'Let me win. But if I cannot win, let me be brave in the attempt,' Special Olympics has provided many children and adults the opportunity to participate in healthy athletic competitions." 
   The legislation acknowledges the positive impact that Special Olympics has on the quality of life of individuals with disabilities, improving their health and physical well-being, building their confidence and self-esteem, and giving them a voice to become active and productive members of their communities. The bill calls for increasing athlete participation in and public awareness about the Special Olympics movement, as well as dispelling negative stereotypes about individuals with disabilities, and building athlete/family involvement through sports. 
   Special Olympics was founded in Chicago in 1968, where the First International Special Olympics Summer Games took place. More than 1,000 athletes from the U.S. and Canada participated in this event dedicated to providing opportunities for athletic competition for persons with disabilities. Thirty-six years later, more than 1.5 million children and adults from more than 150 countries around the world are directly benefiting from this life-changing idea.
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 