SEN. SANTORUM PRESENTS EDUCATION FUNDING TO ARTHUR ASHE YOUTH TENNIS CENTER IN PHILADELPHIA
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today presented funding to the Arthur Ashe Youth Tennis Center (AAYTE) to be used to expand the Center's After School program and Life Skills Curriculum. The $100,000 was awarded from the Fund for the Improvement of Education within the Department of Education.  
   "As an avid tennis player, I believe the game teaches youngsters about fairness, sportsmanship, physical fitness, and discipline. Combining these important lessons with education is a great way to keep students interested in learning," said Senator Santorum. "The programs receiving this funding positively impact students who may not have the opportunity to engage in sports and other activities. The After School program has been successful for many students in the Philadelphia region, and I am pleased this funding will enable expansion." 
   "AAYTE has elevated the development and implementation of new and exciting educational programs to a level 1 priority," said Scott Tharp, Executive Director of Arthur Ashe Youth Tennis and Education, Inc. "We are most grateful for Senator Santorum's efforts in helping us obtain this funding which allows us to further expand our After School Tennis 'N' Tutoring program and to train more mentors to deliver our Life Skills Curriculum to inner city children. Both of these initiatives have produced extremely encouraging short-term measurable results." 
   "Sadly, this is my last year as a participant as Arthur Ashe Youth Tennis and Education, but I'm excited to be heading to East Stroudsburg University in the fall where I look forward to playing varsity tennis," said Bill Powell, Senior at Central High School in Philadelphia. "AAYTE has given me and countless others opportunities that otherwise couldn't be afforded and has helped prepare us for the challenges ahead." 
   The After School program at AAYTE pairs certified schoolteachers with certified tennis professionals. Students split their time between the classroom and the tennis court. The Life Skills Curriculum, which has always been a part of AAYTE, will be fully integrated into the After School program in the fall of 2005.
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 