SEN. SANTORUM RAISES AWARENESS OF HEPATITIS B
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, is an original cosponsor of a resolution that passed the Senate today designating the week of May 9th, 2005 as "National Hepatitis B Awareness Week."  
   "Hepatitis B is the most common serious liver infection in the world," said Santorum. "This resolution will designate the week of May 9th, 2005 as "National Hepatitis B Awareness Week," which will offer opportunities in Pennsylvania and across the country to educate the public about new treatments to prevent the transmission of this disease and its progression to liver cancer." 
   The Hepatitis B Foundation, headquartered in Doylestown, Pennsylvania, will host a major event on May 10th in Philadelphia, which will bring together doctors, patients and families within the hepatitis B community. This is one of many educational events that will be held across the country during "National Hepatitis B Awareness Week" to raise awareness about this issue. 
   According to the Department of Health and Human Services, 12 million people (one in 20) have been infected at some time in their lives with the hepatitis B virus in the United States. This highly infectious virus strikes Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders at a disproportionate rate as compared to the general population. It is also estimated that among adolescents, African Americans are three to four times more likely than Caucasians to have a hepatitis B infection. 
   According to the 2000 United States Census brief, there are 248,601 Asian Americans living in Pennsylvania. Of the ten largest places in the United States, Philadelphia ranked fourth (44 percent) with the largest portion of blacks or African Americans. At that time, eleven percent (1,289,123) of Pennsylvania's total population was of black or African American decent. 
   Pennsylvania has a long-standing tradition of being on the front lines of combating hepatitis B. In addition to being home to the Hepatitis B Foundation, Pennsylvania is also home to Dr. Baruch Blumberg, Professor of Medicine and Anthropology at the University of Pennsylvania, who was awarded the 1976 Nobel Prize for his discovery of hepatitis B, which has spurred subsequent hepatitis B vaccine development in the Commonwealth.
  "I am pleased that my Senate colleagues joined me in supporting the passage of this important, bipartisan resolution," said Santorum. "Through this resolution, we continue working to raise awareness of the consequences of untreated chronic hepatitis B, and the importance of seeking appropriate care as a significant public health issue."
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 