SEN. SANTORUM DISCUSSES IMPORTANCE OF ARMY WAR COLLEGE TO SOUTH CENTRAL PENNSYLVANIA
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, held a community roundtable discussion in Cumberland County today with local leaders to discuss the importance of the Army War College located at Carlisle Barracks, Pennsylvania. Rep. Todd Platts, State Sen. Pat Vance, State Rep. Wil Gabig and others joined in the discussion.  
   "I appreciate the opportunity to join in today's discussion about the importance of the Army War College," said Senator Santorum. "This historic institution has been the home to generations of military leaders over the years. The Army War College has enhanced the prestige of the region and provided career enhancing opportunities that benefit the Carlisle community and all of south central Pennsylvania." 
   "Speaking for the committee, we couldn't be happier that Senator Santorum and other members of the Pennsylvania delegation are visiting the Army War College at this critical time in the BRAC process," said John Connolly, Chairman of the Cumberland County BRAC Committee. "Senator Santorum has expressed his support for the College on numerous occasions. His visit at this point - two weeks away from the BRAC announcements underscores his support." 
   "Carlisle Barracks enjoys a wonderfully supportive relationship with the Carlisle community and central Pennsylvania," said LTC Merideth A. Bucher, U.S. Army War College and Carlisle Barracks Public Affairs Officer. "We are very appreciative of the concern and attention that citizens and community leaders have given our post and employees. The War College, in particular, and the Carlisle area are blessed with a mutually beneficial relationship, and of this we are very grateful." 
   Senator Santorum has been a proponent of the War College and other activities located at Carlisle Barracks. For example, he recently contacted Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld to express his support for the Army War College and strongly urged that there be no effort to relocate this important educational institution.
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 