SEN. SANTORUM ANNOUNCES SENATE PASSAGE OF LEGISLATION PREVENTING ANIMAL FIGHTING
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, member of the Senate Agriculture Committee and Chairman of the Agriculture Subcommittee with jurisdiction over animal welfare, announced the Senate passage of S. 382, the Animal Fighting Prohibition Enforcement Act, which passed unanimously. Sen.  
 Santorum was an original cosponsor of the legislation, which prevents sponsoring or exhibiting animal fighting competition. 
   "Dogfighting and cockfighting are despicable activities in which animals are forced to keep fighting even after they've suffered serious injuries," said Senator Santorum. "Animal fighting is almost always associated with illegal gambling, and often involves illegal drug traffic and violence. I am pleased that my Senate colleagues have passed this important legislation which will prevent these abusive and barbaric activities." 
   The Animal Fighting Prohibition Enforcement Act establishes felony-level jail time for violation of the animal fighting law, strengthens the maximum jail time from 1-year misdemeanor level in the current law, and prohibits the interstate and foreign commerce of knives and gaffs designed specifically for cockfighting. 
   Senator Santorum has been an active supporter of legislation that prevents the inhumane treatment of animals. In June of 2004, Senator Santorum joined forty-seven of his Senate colleagues in seeking an increased appropriation for the United States Department of Agriculture to enforce the Animal Welfare Act (AWA). Currently, there are too few inspectors nationwide to ensure strong enforcement of AWA regulations, and more funding for AWA enforcement would secure adequate resources to perform proper inspections. 
   Representative Mark Green (R-WI) introduced similar legislation that is awaiting final passage by the House Agriculture Committee within the House of Representatives.
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 