SEN. SANTORUM VISITS JLG INDUSTRIES IN FULTON COUNTY, CREATIVE PULTRUSIONS IN BEDFORD COUNTY
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, was in Fulton County today at JLG Industries, Inc. in McConnellsburg, which employs more than 2,300 individuals. JLG Industries, Inc. is the world's leading producer of access equipment including aerial work platforms and telehandlers.  
   At the Fulton County facility, in addition to manufacturing aerial work platforms, they also manufacture the All Terrain Lifting Army System (ATLAS) used by the United States Armed Forces. The ATLAS is a self-deployable rough terrain, manually operated forklift capable of operating efficiently in nuclear, biological, and chemical environments. 
   "I am pleased to be at JLG Industries and see the fine work Pennsylvanians continue to produce for the global market and for the members of the United States Armed forces who are serving on the frontlines in the war on Islamic Facism," said Senator Santorum. 
   Senator Santorum was successful in securing $3.5 million for JLG Industries in the Fiscal Year 2006 Defense Appropriations bill for the production of the ATLAS and is working to secure $12 million in the Fiscal Year 2007 Defense Appropriations bill for the production of both the ATLAS and the Millennia Military Vehicles (MMVs). 
   "We are pleased to welcome Senator Santorum to McConnellsburg and thank him for his continued support of JLG Industries. We are very proud to support the U.S. Military with telehandlers such as the ATLAS for the Army and the MMV for the Marines and Navy in addition to other services," said David Peacock, JLG Vice President of Government Products and Programs. 
   Later today Senator Santorum will be at Creative Pultrusions, Inc., a leading producer in the Fiber Reinforced Polymer Composites Industry. The company serves the defense, aerospace, transportation, construction, electrical and consumer industries primarily making fiberglass products and components. 
   "We are honored to have Senator Santorum at Creative Pultrusions today; we appreciate the work he is doing in the United States Senate to help small businesses and to create a better environment for job growth," said Dustin Troutman, Director of Marketing & Product Development at Creative Pulrtusions. 
   Senator Santorum is committed to small business growth. He has been a leader in the U.S. Senate advocating against the death tax, which is burdensome to small businesses and has also sponsored pro-small business legislation. 
   "Small businesses drive our economy, creating the majority of America's new jobs. The death tax however, stifles competitiveness in the U.S. economy and discourages family owned and operated businesses," said Senator Santorum. "Throughout my tenure in the United States Senate, I have been a strong advocate for small businesses. In March 2006, I introduced the Second-Stage Small Business Development Act, which would create new opportunities for small businesses to overcome challenges and continue to build on their successes." 
   Senator Santorum is also committed to making health care more affordable for Pennsylvania's small businessmen and women. Ensuring that Pennsylvania's small businesses have access to quality and affordable health care remains one of the Senator Santorum's highest legislative priorities, which is why he cosponsored S. 406, the Small Business Health Fairness Act of 2005.
 
 