SEN. SANTORUM URGES U.N. ACTION AGAINST ANTI-SEMITISM
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today introduced a bipartisan sense of the Senate resolution urging action against anti-Semitism by United Nations member states and officials.  
   "I urge my colleagues to support this resolution and join me in sending a strong message to the United Nations that member states must put an end to anti-Semitic language and political attacks against Israel," said Senator Santorum. "It is time for the Senate to speak once more against the scourge of anti-Israel and anti-Semitic language and activity." 
   The resolution cites specific examples of anti-Semitism within the United Nations. False accusations have been made against the Jewish people and the government of Israel at the U.N. Commission on Human Rights. Israel also continues to be the only U.N. member denied the opportunity to hold a rotating seat on the Security Council, despite the fact that it has been a member of the organization for 56 years. 
   Also stated in the resolution is the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights recognizes that "the inherent dignity and equal and inalienable rights of all members of the human family is the foundation of freedom, justice and peace in the world," despite the numerous examples of anti-Semitism and anti-Israel actions at the U.N. and by member states. 
   The resolution makes it clear that the United States Senate is committed to opposing anti-Semitism and calls on the U.N. to officially and publicly condemn anti-Semitic statements made at its meetings and to hold accountable member states that make such statements. In addition, it urges the implementation of educational awareness programs about the Holocaust to be implemented around the world to combat anti-Semitism, racism, and religious and ethnic intolerance. The U.S. Ambassador to the U.N. should also continue working to reduce anti-Semitic and anti-Israel language and resolutions. Likewise, the resolution asks that information on anti-Semitic activities be included in the State Department's annual human rights and religious freedom reports. 
   Senators Russ Feingold (D-WI), Norm Coleman (R-MN), Gordon Smith (R-OR), Susan Collins (R-ME), and George Voinovich (R-OH) are cosponsors of the resolution. A similar resolution sponsored by Representatives Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-18-FL) and Tom Lantos (D-12-CA), passed the House of Representatives earlier this month by a vote of 409 to 2.
   Contact: Robert Traynham, 202/224-0610.
 
 