SEN. SANTORUM TO VISIT LACKAWANNA COUNTY TO PRESENT FUNDING FOR NORTHEAST REGIONAL CANCER INSTITUTE
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, traveled to Lackawanna County today to present $100,000 in funding to the Northeast Regional Cancer Institute. The Centers for Disease Control funding was secured by Senator Santorum through the FY 2004 Omnibus Appropriations Bill. It will be used to research the causes of higher incidences of colorectal cancer in Northeastern Pennsylvania as well as educate the public about prevention and signs and symptoms of the disease.  
   "Colorectal cancer is a devastating disease that is claiming the lives of more and more Pennsylvanians every day," said Senator Santorum. "I am pleased that the Northeast Regional Cancer Institute will receive this funding which is crucial to understanding why Northeast Pennsylvania is afflicted with some of the highest rates of colorectal cancer in the nation." 
   Senator Santorum was joined by Bob Durkin, President of the Cancer Institute; Carmen Minora, Lackawanna County Judge and colon cancer survivor; and Samuel Lesko, M.D., M.P.H.S., Medical Director and Director of Research at the Cancer Institute. 
   "On behalf of the thousands of northeastern Pennsylvanians faced with the challenges of colorectal cancer, I want to thank Senator Rick Santorum for securing these funds," said Robert Durkin, President of the Cancer Institute. "If the community and researchers work together, we will have the best chance at discovering the cause of the high colon and rectal cancer rates in Northeast Pennsylvania." 
   With the exception to skin cancer, cancers of the large intestine (colon and rectal) are the most frequently diagnosed cancers in Northeast Pennsylvania. Both the incidence of and mortality from these cancers in Northeast Pennsylvania are greater than expected. 
   "This grant will allow investigators at the Cancer Institute to gather data from a population-based sample of newly diagnosed colon and rectal cancer patients and use this data to identify one or more factors contributing to the unusually high rate of this type of cancer in Northeast Pennsylvania. The Cancer Institute will also be able to identify supportive care in the region for patients at various stages of the illness," said Senator Santorum. 
   The age-adjusted incidence rate for colorectal cancer among white men in Lackawanna County, Pennsylvania in 1998-2001 was 83.7 per 100,000, which was significantly greater than recent similar rates from Pennsylvania (75.9 per 100,000) or nationwide (65.4 per 100,000), according to the cases in the National Cancer Institute's Surveillance Epidemiology and End Results (SEER) registries. Likewise, the age-adjusted death rate from colorectal cancer among white men in Lackawanna County, Pennsylvania in 1996-2000 was 30.2 per 100,000, which was higher than the corresponding rates in Pennsylvania (28.4 per 100,000) or nationwide (25.3 per 100,000). Both incidence and mortality rates among women followed a similar pattern (higher in Northeast Pennsylvania than Pennsylvania or the U.S.). 
   For more information on colorectal cancer prevention, signs and symptoms, and treatment please go to http://www.nrci.org/nrci/.
   Contact: Kristen Vanderpool, 202/224-0610.
 
 