TELEWORKING WORKS
  As Americans in the 21st century, we have the great fortune to be members of the most technologically advanced society in history. From advances in medicine and healthcare to the incredible leaps in computing and other technologies, we have access to a quality of life that, truthfully, was little more than a fantasy in the past. In few arenas has this revolution had a greater effect than in the corporate world, where email, the fax machine, videophone and a host of other technologies have fundamentally altered the way Pennsylvania, our nation, and the world does business.  
   At the forefront of the benefits that the advent of the Internet has brought to businesses is the ability for American workers to 'telework,' or work from home. Teleworkers are people who work on-line from home, whether a few days a week or their entire work schedule, using computers and other information technology tools. Nearly 40 million Americans telework today, and according to experts, 40 percent of the nation's jobs are compatible with telework. 
   There are numerous advantages to increasing the amount of individuals who choose to telework, and it is time that the government realizes these advantages and makes telework a more attractive option for both workers and their employers. To this end, I recently introduced the Telework Tax Incentive Act. This legislation provides an incentive to encourage more employers to consider telework for their employees, hopefully making telework a regular part of the 21st century workplace. 
   If enacted, the Telework Tax Incentive Act would provide a $500 tax credit for expenses incurred, by an employer or employee, in setting up the necessary infrastructure to enable an individual to telework. Thus, the cost of furniture, computers, modems, phones and many other types of electronic information equipment could count toward a tax credit, provided the individual worked at home a minimum of 75 days every year. 
   The best part of telework is that it improves the quality of life for so many people-the employee, the employer, and the community. By enabling workers to stay home instead of commuting to work every day, increased telework will have a positive impact on the environment. In fact, it was reported in 2000 that if 10 to 20 percent of commuters switched to teleworking, 1.8 million tons of regulated pollutants would be eliminated, increasing the quality of our air. The same report indicated that 3.5 billion gallons of gas would be saved, helping to reduce America's dependence on foreign oil. 
   For employers, there are potential financial benefits to having a greater number of teleworkers on staff. In 1999, Joan H. Pratt Associates conducted the Telework America National Telework Survey. The results of this survey show that employers may save more than $10,000 per telework employee simply from reduced absenteeism and increased employee retention. This amount could be even higher when considering the productivity gains that will come from teleworking. 
   Those who will reap the greatest benefits from teleworking, however, are the employees now able to perform their jobs from home. Telework is great for families, providing working parents the flexibility to meet everyday demands and balance their work and life responsibilities. Currently, over 70 percent of American parents feel they don't spend enough time with their children. Without the commute, the workday is shorter, giving many parents the chance to change this unfortunate statistic. Telework also provides greater opportunities for people with disabilities, as well as for those who are retired and wish to work part time. 
   American workers lose thousands of hours each year commuting to and from work, and Pennsylvania is certainly subject to this problem-since 1996, the Greater Philadelphia area has ranked in the top ten nationwide for annual person-hours of delay due to traffic congestion. With technology enabling us to access the same information from a computer in the home as a computer in the office, spending time commuting is no longer always a necessity. Wouldn't these hours be better spent with the family, coaching little league, or volunteering at a local charity? It is my hope that this legislation will help to make telework a more viable option for employers and their workers, giving those who want to work from home the chance to do so.
 
 