SEN. SANTORUM TO VISIT SUSQUEHANNA COUNTY TO DISCUSS MEDICARE REIMBURSEMENT; TOUR KEYSTONE COLLEGE IN WYOMING COUNTY
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, traveled to Susquehanna County today to meet with administrators and doctors at Barnes-Kasson Hospital to discuss Medicare reimbursement. He also traveled to Keystone College for an update of the college's new academic programs including the Northeast Urban Forestry Program, as well as visit the newly constructed Child Care Center.  
   Senator Santorum met with Sara C. Iveson, Executive Director at Barnes-Kasson Hospital, to discuss the impact Medicare Reimbursement will have on the hospital in Susquehanna, Susquehanna County and the challenges rural hospitals face as a result of escalating medical liability insurance rates. The Medicare Reimbursement Formula was a part of the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003 (MMA). 
   "Barnes-Kasson is the largest employer in Susquehanna County and is in need of technology and facility upgrades so they can provide quality care for their patients. I will continue to support legislation that will lower medical liability costs for rural hospitals and allow for hospitals, such as Barnes-Kasson, to retain funds so they can perform basic functions and meet the needs of their patients," said Senator Santorum. 
   As a result of the new formula, which was supported by Senator Santorum, Barnes-Kasson will receive $2.4 million over the next ten years. However, the rural hospital's financial situation is strained due to the large percentage of patients who are on medical assistance or Medicare, leaving Barnes-Kasson to cover many expenses out of their own pocket. 
   "Pennsylvania is currently facing a devastating malpractice crisis which has precipitated the loss of many of our most highly skilled surgeons. The Senator and I will discuss the feasibility of implementing tort reform and caps on non-economic damages in the hopes of preventing further erosion of our medical human resources," said Ms. Iveson. 
   Following his visit to Susquehanna County, the Senator traveled to Wyoming County where he met with Dr. Edward Boehm, President of Keystone College. Senator Santorum received an update on the new Northeast Urban Forestry Program and a tour of the newly constructed Child Care Center. 
   "The Northeast Urban Forestry Program is an example of Keystone College's continued commitment to academic research and excellence in Northeast Pennsylvania," said Senator Santorum. "The program aims to ensure that the ecological and natural resource needs of the urban forest are met. In order to achieve their goals Keystone College collaborates with a broad range of partners and specialists to ensure sustainable use of the urban forest." 
   The Urban Forestry Program was recently relocated from Morris Arboretum at the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia to Keystone College. The program communicates and disseminates leading edge technologies and resources that promote the health of the urban forest. It strives to build partnerships, promote awareness of technical assistance, and use new technologies that address current needs for urban and community forestry programs in the Mid-Atlantic States.
   Contact: Kristen Vanderpool, 202/224-0610.
 
 