SEN. SANTORUM DELIVERS FEDERAL FUNDING TO CITY OF SCRANTON, EAST STROUDSBURG UNIVERSITY TOTALING MORE THAN $2 MILLION
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today delivered funding to the City of Scranton from the Department of Housing and Urban Development, Neighborhood Initiatives Account. Sen. Santorum has worked with Scranton Mayor, Chris Doherty, to secure funding to develop the city's neighborhoods and downtown. Last year Sen. Santorum was successful in securing funding for the redevelopment of the South Side and this funding will be used for the North Main Avenue Project.  
   "I am pleased to deliver $200,000 to the City of Scranton for the North Main Avenue redevelopment project," said Senator Santorum. "This funding is important to assist in the revitalization of the city's neighborhoods and business districts; I have been working with Mayor Doherty to identify projects that can help to spur new economic development, retain jobs and instill a renewed sense of pride in the city of Scranton and its neighborhoods." 
   Senator Santorum and Senator Arlen Specter (R-PA) were successful in securing funding for this project and for other cities in the Economic Development Initiative portion of the Fiscal Year 2006 Departments of the Transportation, Treasury, and Judiciary, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies (THUD) fiscal year 206 Appropriations bill. 
   Senator Santorum was also in Monroe County to deliver federal funding to East Stroudsburg University (ESU) for two programs. One of the checks for $1.275 million is a competitive grant being awarded to ESU Center for Research and Economic Development from funding from the Economic Development Administration (EDA); the other check for $1 million is from the Fiscal Year 2006 Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations bill for technology upgrades at ESU's Cyber Crime and Forensics Institute. 
   Senator Santorum was able to secure $200,000 in Fiscal Year 2005 for computer infrastructure development at East Stroudsburg University Center for Research and Economic Development. On August 4, 2004 Senators Santorum and Specter urged EDA Regional Director, Paul Raetsch, to provide the EDA grant for this project. More recently, on April 6, 2005 Senator Santorum joined Senator Specter again urging Assistant Secretary for Commerce and EDA Administrator, David Sampson, to provide this grant. 
   "This investment in East Stroudsburg will help build a technology business facility that is expected to create 565 jobs and generate $53.7 million in private investment," said Senator Santorum. "I have worked hard to deliver federal funding that supports economic growth and development initiatives in my state. East Stroudsburg University is a major part of the growing economy in the Poconos, and ESU is emerging as a leader in technology education. This investment is a way to reward the great work the University is doing." 
   EDA serves as a venture capital resource to meet the economic development needs of distressed communities throughout the United States. EDA's mission is to lead the federal economic development agenda by promoting innovation and competitiveness, preparing American regions for growth and success in the worldwide economy. Additional information on how EDA investments are helping distressed communities create a positive and sustainable economic future can be accessed at: http://www.eda.gov. 
   "I am very pleased that Senator Rick Santorum, Senator Arlen Specter and Congressman Paul Kanjorski, saw fit to lend support for our efforts to secure this important grant," said Dr. Robert Dillman, President of ESU. "In supporting this project, they have helped to attract high-end technology businesses and job opportunities to Monroe County." 
   Senator Santorum also presented funding from the fiscal year 2006 Science, Commerce, Justice and State Appropriations bill for the establishment of a Cyber Crime and Forensics Institute in East Stroudsburg. ESU has created a cross disciplinary program that addresses the abuse of computers and related communication technologies, including the Internet. The criminal use of computers exists where offenders release debilitating viruses, stalk and harass, distribute child pornography and commit fraud involving commerce transactions. The Institute will serve as a vital tool for law enforcement at all levels of government. 
   "Cyber crime is on the rise in America and has become increasingly difficult to address because of constant advances in cyber technology. I am pleased to deliver $1 million to ESU and I am proud to see a Pennsylvania institution become a leader in researching ways to combat cyber crime and fraud," said Senator Santorum. 
   "ESU is very grateful that Senator Rick Santorum, Senator Arlen Specter and Congressman Paul Kanjorski secured this funding for the creation of a Cyber Crime and Forensics Institute in East Stroudsburg. Our vision for making Monroe County home to a national 'center of excellence' in the field of computer security has been realized through their efforts," said Dr. Dillman. "As the first university in the United States to provide undergraduate degree programs in computer security, we look forward to providing the training and tools necessary for federal, state, and local enforcement communities to fight crimes committed through the use of the computer." 
   Paul Raetsch, EDA Regional Director; Mario Scavello, Pennsylvania State Representative (R - 176); Monroe County Commissioners; and Monroe County Business Leaders also attended the event.
   Contact: Robert Traynham, 202/224-0610.
 
 