SEN. SANTORUM DELIVERS FEDERAL FUNDING TO HISTORIC BETHLEHEM PARTNERSHIP
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, was in Bethlehem, Northampton County today to deliver federal funding to the Historic Bethlehem Partnership.  
   "Earlier this year when I toured Historic Bethlehem, I had an opportunity to see the Waterworks and many other fascinating historical landmarks. I am pleased to deliver $150,000 to the Historic Bethlehem Partnership to repair the 1762 Waterworks, which is the oldest pumped waterworks in America," said Senator Santorum. "Pennsylvania is full of historical treasures and it is important that we preserve our heritage for future generations." 
   For the past four years the Waterworks original reconstructed system with its three suction pumps and wooden waterwheel has been inoperable due to weather and age damage. This funding, secured in the fiscal year 2006 Interior Appropriations bill, will be used by the Historic Bethlehem Partnership to reconstruct a new waterwheel and replace the support system beams so that the mechanism can again be operable. Remaining money will be used to install an education exhibit to explain the importance of the first pumped water system in colonial America. 
   The exhibit is expected to include a one-quarter-scale working model of the waterworks mechanism, constructed by engineering students from Bucknell University, with interpretive panels and interactive exhibits to tell the story of this national historical landmark. 
   "The Waterworks was initially restored as a Bicentennial project in 1976. Now after almost 30 years of use and three floods in thirteen months, our Waterworks is in dire need of repair. Senator Santorum's support will allow us to once again have the waterwheel turning and install an educational exhibit to explain the importance of this first pumped municipal water system in America," said Charlene Donchez Mowers, Executive Director, Historic Bethlehem Partnership.
   Contact: Robert Traynham, 202/224-0610.
 
 