SEN. SANTORUM ATTENDS GROUNDBREAKING AT AGUSTAWESTLAND, DELIVERS FEDERAL FUNDING TO COMMUNITY MUSIC SCHOOL OF COLLEGEVILLE
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, was in Philadelphia and Trappe, Montgomery County this afternoon following a morning in Lackawanna, Monroe and Northampton counties.  
   In Philadelphia, Senator Santorum attended the groundbreaking ceremony for the expansion of the Agusta Aerospace Corporation (ACC). Senator Santorum has supported the expansion of the Philadelphia facility, which will create jobs and boost the regional economy in southeastern Pennsylvania. 
   The new facility will be used for the production of the AB139 helicopter. The 110,000 square foot facility will include flight hangars, completion and final assembly areas, manufacturing stations, and avionics assembly along with warehouse and office space. The project will require over $27 million in investment and create 150 jobs, thereby nearly doubling AAC's existing workforce. 
   "AgustaWestland's decision to assemble this helicopter in Philadelphia reinforces the fact that this region is an ideal location for global business," said Senator Santorum. "I am also optimistic about future contributions by AgustaWestland towards creating a stronger economy and I salute the company for its long-term commitment to the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and the United States of America." 
   "Today is a very proud day for AgustaWestland and Agusta Aerospace Corporation," said Giuseppe Orsi, chief executive officer of AgustaWestland. "The expansion of AAC exemplifies the success and subsequent high demand for our AB139 and marks our commitment to the United States industrial base and continued investment in the city of Philadelphia and Pennsylvania." 
   In Trappe, Montgomery County, Senator Santorum presented a check to the Community Music School of Collegeville from Fiscal Year 2005 Department of Education, Fund for the Improvement of Education appropriations. 
   "I am pleased to deliver $100,000 to the Community Music School of Collegeville. Music is an important part of childhood development and teaches a child discipline and responsibility," said Senator Santorum.
   Contact: Robert Traynham, 202/224-0610.
 
 