'UNNECESSARY CONTROVERSY: THE TRUTH ABOUT THE PATRIOT ACT'
  This year marks the third anniversary of the Patriot Act - legislation that has unfortunately been touted as an extremely controversial overreaching of the government's power. The myths surrounding the Patriot Act are based largely on misinformation and false assumptions that desire to scare people into thinking that government is secretly watching as they type e-mails, make phone calls, and check out library books.  
   Myth: Only fanatical conservatives, who want to strip Americans of their rights, support the Patriot Act.
   Fact: President George W. Bush and Congress understood that in the days following the September 11th terrorist attacks we had a constitutional obligation to protect American citizens. The Senate passed the Patriot Act by a vote of 98-1, with the support of Senators John Kerry and John Edwards. 
   The nonpartisan 9/11 Commission has emphasized the importance of the Patriot Act as an essential weapon in the nation's global war on terrorism. The 9/11 Commission acknowledged that before September 11th, legal and regulatory policies prevented effective sharing of information between intelligence and law enforcement agencies. The Patriot Act was able to break down that wall and improve our counterterrorism efforts by extending several law enforcement tools to foreign intelligence cases. 
   Representatives from both the Bush and Clinton administrations have spoken out about the importance of the Patriot Act to improving the government's ability to share information and pursue terrorists. Former Attorney General Janet Reno told the 9/11 Commission, "Generally everything that's been done in the Patriot Act has been helpful, I think, while at the same time maintaining the balance with respect to civil liberties." 
   Myth: There are extreme abuses of the Patriot Act as depicted in ads.
   Fact: The Justice Department Inspector General has reported that there have been no instances in which the Patriot Act has been invoked to infringe on civil rights or civil liberties. There are numerous safeguards built into the Patriot Act to prevent the abuse of civil liberties. 
   Likewise, the Heritage Foundation notes that information-sharing facilitated by the Patriot Act was critical to the successful dismantling of terror cells in Portland, Oregon; Lackawanna, New York; San Diego; and Virginia. It also aided in the prosecution of Enaam Arnaout, who had a long-standing relationship with Osama bin Laden and used his charity organization to obtain funds illicitly from unsuspecting Americans for terrorist organizations, such as al Qaeda. 
   Myth: The Patriot Act permits "sneak and peak" searches, in which a person whose property is searched is never notified.
  Fact: Notice is always required for sneak and peak searches. The Patriot Act allows the delay of notification of search warrants only if reasonable grounds exist to delay notice, such as flight or destruction of evidence-notice is still required. In addition, evidence may not be seized unless the court finds that seizure is necessary. 
   Myth: The Patriot Act allows the government to spy on telephone calls and e-mail.
  Fact: The Patriot Act does not allow the use of investigative tools to obtain information about the content of telephone calls and e-mails. The law does allow the use of pen registers and trap and trace devices to obtain the source and destination of telephone calls and e-mails-not their content. These tools have been available to law enforcement for years with respect to telephone calls. The Patriot Act simply makes it clear that the same rules may be applied to e-mail that previously applied to telephones by updating existing law, which states that the government must obtain a search warrant to see the content of unopened e-mails that are less than six months old. 
   Myth: The Patriot Act allows the government to compile watch lists based on the books you take out of the library.
  Fact: The Patriot Act never specifically states "library records." The Patriot Act does permit the government to obtain "tangible things" from third parties in foreign intelligence investigations. Previous law already allowed government agents to access business records, including library records, with a grand jury subpoena in criminal cases. The Patriot Act merely expands previous law to encompass foreign intelligence cases. 
   Myth: The Patriot Act discriminates against Arab and Muslim Americans.
  Fact: To the contrary, the Patriot Act protects Arab and Muslim Americans' civil rights and liberties, making every effort to preserve their safety. The Department of Justice's Office of Inspector General is directed to process and investigate complaints alleging abuses of civil rights by Department of Justice employees. The Patriot Act condemns acts of violence or discrimination against all Americans, including Arab Americans, Muslim Americans, and Americans from South Asia. 
   Myth: The Patriot Act is unconstitutional.
   Fact. Not a single provision of the Patriot Act has been held unconstitutional by any court in the United States. 
   In the years to come, we will continue to need the Patriot Act to protect us. President George W. Bush understands the threat of terrorism and will encourage Congress to reauthorize the Patriot Act, which achieves liberty and security-keeping us safe. Senator John Kerry will only support the Patriot Act if foreign countries approve. 
   The Patriot Act gives investigators old tools to use against a new threat and breaks down the wall that prevents information sharing between agencies. We are all benefiting from the safety the Patriot Act provides.
 
 