SEN. SANTORUM INTRODUCES BIPARTISAN FIRE SPRINKLER LEGISLATION TO HELP KEEP PENNSYLVANIANS SAFE
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today introduced the Fire Sprinkler Incentive Act of 2004, which significantly improves the tax incentive for the installation of automatic fire suppression systems. Sen. John D. Rockefeller IV (D-WV) is an original cosponsor of this bipartisan legislation.  
   The act will amend the tax code to classify automatic fire sprinkler systems as 5-year property for purposes of tax depreciation as opposed to the current 27.5 or 39-year period for installations in residential rental and non-residential real property. 
   Most property owners are unable to upgrade fire countermeasures in buildings built prior to safety codes due to the financial burden of retrofitting. Furthermore, many state and local governments lack any requirements to include automatic sprinklers. 
   "Proper installation and regular inspection of fire sprinklers can help keep Pennsylvanians safe where they live and work," said Santorum. "This act offers incentives for the voluntary installation and retrofitting of existing buildings with automated sprinkler systems." 
   In 2001, fire was the cause of almost $9 billion in direct property damage. Sprinklers have been reported to reduce property damage by forty-three to seventy percent in educational, residential, commercial, industrial and manufacturing buildings. 
   Santorum has garnered support for this legislation from several organizations including the American Insurance Association, American Fire Sprinkler Association, California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection, Campus Firewatch, Congressional Fire Services Institute, Independent Insurance, Agents & Brokers of America, International Association of Arson Investigators, International Association of Fire Chiefs, International Fire Service Training Association, National Fire Protection Association, National Fire Sprinkler Association, National Volunteer Fire Council, Society of Fire Protection Engineers, and Mechanical Contractors Association of America. 
   "Replacing outdated sprinkler systems can save the lives of countless people, protect our firefighters, and reduce the costs from property damage," said Santorum.
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 