SEN. SANTORUM HAILS MEDICARE VICTORY FOR WILLIAMSPORT HOSPITAL
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, received news late yesterday that his on-going efforts to urge the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) to address a payment disparity for Williamsport Hospital & Medical Center were successful, and will result in at least $2.5 million in fairer reimbursement for the hospital over a 6 month period beginning in October 2006. Sen. Santorum is hopeful that this new payment policy will result in a total increase of $5 million per year.  
   "This is great news for Williamsport Hospital & Medical Center and for the community it serves," said Senator Santorum. "The new, fairer reimbursement for the hospital will assure access to high quality and cost-effective care to citizens from Williamsport, Lycoming County and the surrounding rural areas." 
   Mr. Steven P. Johnson, President and CEO of Susquehanna Health, Williamsport Hospitals' parent organization, noted "While we are disappointed with Medicare's decision not to provide a permanent solution, we are extremely grateful for the tremendous support from Senator Santorum. The Senator's tireless efforts on behalf of our community and our patients are a wonderful example of an elected official acting as a true statesman and leader. We look forward to continuing to work with Senator Santorum on a permanent solution for Williamsport Hospital & Medical Center." 
   Williamsport Hospital & Medical Center has struggled financially due to an unfair Medicare payment policy that compensates competing hospitals nearly 10 percent more for employee wage costs. This disparity cost Williamsport Hospital & Medical Center approximately $3.5 million per year in lost Medicare reimbursement. Senator Santorum has advocated for, and urged a fair and equitable Medicare reimbursement for Williamsport Hospital. To that end he has facilitated meetings with CMS officials, written several letters to CMS officials and made numerous calls to CMS, the Department of Health and Human Services, the Office of Management and Budget, and the White House on behalf of his constituents - the employees and patients who rely on the quality care delivered by Williamsport Hospital & Medical Center.
 
 