SEN. SANTORUM, REP. ENGLISH ANNOUNCE FEDERAL FUNDING FOR TRANSPORTATION PROJECTS IN PENNSYLVANIA
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA) along with Rep. Phil English (R-Pa.) today announced $2.4 million in federal funding for important projects in Mercer County. The city of Greenville and the Shenango Valley Shuttle Service received funds from the Transportation, Treasury, Housing and Urban Development, the Judiciary, the District of Columbia, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2006, which was approved by Congress on November 21, 2005.  
   "I am pleased that Congress has approved funding to expand and improve our roadways and mass transit infrastructure," Senator Santorum said. "It is important that northwestern Pennsylvania continuously maintain and continue to modernize transportation in order to ensure the safe travel of its citizens, create more efficient means of transportation, and sustain a robust economy." 
   "On behalf of the citizens of northwestern Pennsylvania, I'd like to extend my deepest appreciation to Senator Santorum for his commitment to these projects and our region. With his help, we were able to secure more than $2 million in federal funds to support economic growth in the area," English said. "This critical funding will bolster development for Greenville's Streetscape Program and improve the Shenango Valley Shuttle Service's public transportation system. We should all be grateful for the Senator's help, Mercer County and northwestern Pennsylvania has a real friend in Senator Santorum." 
   Funding for the following Pennsylvania projects has been approved: 
   * $2.15 million for the Greenville Area Economic Development Corporation, which launched the Greenville Streetscape Program several years ago with the help of state funding. Now reaching a critical stage, the borough has been designated a distressed Act 47 community and continues to make strides to turn around the fiscal operation of the municipality. Senator Santorum and Congressman English requested the funds to allow Greenville to move forward on the project. The $2.15 million awarded will promote economic development and help the borough relocate businesses and jobs to the area. 
   * $250,000 for the Shenango Valley Shuttle Service (SVSS), in Sharon, for the upgrade of its bus stations and equipment. All segments of this capital improvement project are of great regional significance throughout the Transit Authority's service area, which consists of the municipalities of Sharon, Hermitage, Farrell, Sharpsville and Wheatland. SVSS received $250,000 for the construction of 46 new Passenger Comfort Stations, purchase of shop equipment for a "shared" vehicle storage/light maintenance facility, and construction of two additional parking facilities directly across from the Shenango Valley Shuttle Service's existing Transit Center. Earlier this year, English was able to secure $418,000 for the service in the Transportation and Equity Act: A Legacy of Users.
   Contact: Robert Traynham, 202/224-0610.
 
 