KEEPING PACE WITH MODERNIZED MEDICARE
  On a day-to-day basis, few things have a larger impact on Americans' quality of life than the state of our own health. When we have health problems it can be extremely debilitating, as well as expensive. As we age, these problems often become more prevalent and more extensive, increasing the need for medical assistance and in many cases, prescription drugs. But prescription drugs can be costly, and some seniors require financial assistance to afford medications. When Congress passed the Medicare Modernization Act, creating a prescription drug plan to provide this assistance, I supported it - but my support was conditional.  
   Pennsylvania is a state in which we are fortunate to have a pharmaceutical assistance program for the elderly, known as PACE. During the debate regarding Medicare drug coverage, an important consideration was the impact that a new prescription drug program would have on those who were already enrolled in our state program. One of the great dangers of creating an encompassing governmental program is that in the process of helping the majority of Americans, others may slip through the cracks and be harmed. For example, I was concerned that Pennsylvania residents currently enrolled in PACE would be forced to enroll in Medicare and pay higher premiums. I did not want such a situation, or anything remotely similar, to occur. 
   The goal of the new Medicare drug coverage is to assist seniors obtain their drugs - not to create confusion or increase costs and certainly not to damage those seniors already enrolled in state pharmacy assistance programs. I fought hard to ensure that the new Medicare program would complement and even improve PACE, and my vote for its implementation was contingent on this fact. 
   Yet as I travel throughout Pennsylvania and listen to my constituents, I've heard the frustration that many Pennsylvanians are feeling due to confusing choices and increased costs. This is extremely disturbing to me, and was exactly the type of response I was looking to avoid. 
   Under the law, it is the responsibility of the state government to work with Medicare and ensure that a program such as PACE obtains the necessary qualifications to become an active partner with Medicare. Sure, there are challenges that come with the integration of such an expansive new benefit. But these challenges are precisely the reason that, while the program was created in 2003, enrollment did not begin until November of this year. This time was critical to enable programs such as PACE to coordinate with Medicare and make sure that Pennsylvania seniors were able to fully benefit from the tremendous assistance that this drug plan provides. Because there were issues that remained unresolved when enrollment began, PACE beneficiaries had many questions and few answers. 
   Last week, I sent a letter to Governor Rendell urging Pennsylvania officials to do whatever necessary to integrate PACE with the Medicare program, emphasizing that time is of the essence. And to his credit, he responded. The Governor worked with federal officials at the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services to lay the groundwork that will enable enrollment to proceed. This agreement means hundreds of millions of dollars for Pennsylvania, money that can be used to enhance benefits for the 300,000 Pennsylvanians enrolled in PACE. 
   In discussions with my constituents, one of the most consistent concerns I hear is the cost of prescription drugs. This prescription plan will do wonders to relieve Pennsylvania's seniors of the burden that comes with expensive prescription drugs, and now that the integration with PACE is moving forward, the benefit will be enhanced. The State Legislature now needs to pass legislation that will make it possible for PACE to pay the Medicare prescription drug premiums for PACE beneficiaries, and to do so as quickly as possible. And most importantly, every Pennsylvania senior should consider their options and make a decision regarding the plan that best fits their needs. It will truly make a difference in their health care, their finances, and ultimately, their lives.
   Contact: Tim Pearson, 202/224-0610.
 
 