SENS. SANTORUM, KENNEDY PLACE BET ON SUPER BOWL XXXIX
  Republican Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, and Sen. Ted Kennedy (D-MA) have a friendly food fight over Super Bowl XXXIX between the Philadelphia Eagles and the New England Patriots this Sunday.  
   If the Eagles win, Santorum and 20 of his staff will feast on Boston's Legal Seafood. If the Patriots win, Kennedy and his staff will enjoy Philadelphia's Geno's Cheesesteaks. 
   "It was an incredible feeling to have both Pennsylvania teams make it to the conference championships this season," said Santorum. "and the Eagles are going to take it one step further with a win for the Commonwealth this Sunday." 
   "I'm enormously proud of the New England Patriots," Senator Kennedy said, "and this year's victory will be an incredible Super Bowl three-peat!" 
   The wager is the second of two that Santorum and Kennedy have placed in the past month. During the final playoff game between the Pittsburgh Steelers and the New England Patriots, Santorum and Kennedy wagered on another Keystone State favorite - Pittsburgh's own Primanti Brothers sandwiches, and Boston's Legal Seafood. 
   After the Steelers loss, Santorum commented on the wager, "The Steelers gave it their best shot last week, and I consider it a win in my book every time I have the opportunity to share Pittsburgh's Primanti Brothers sandwiches with my fellow Senate colleagues." 
   Kennedy commented that it was "very gracious of Senator Santorum to provide lunch from Primanti Bros in light of the Pats victory over the Steelers. I just hope there're more turnovers for dessert." 
   Looking forward to Sunday's Super Bowl game, Senators Kennedy and Santorum are both confident that their team will be victorious. 
   "The Eagles have had quite an impressive year, capturing the NFC Championship and appearing in the Super Bowl this Sunday," said Santorum. "I look forward to seeing the team play the game of their lives as they represent Pennsylvania in the Super Bowl for the first time since 1981." 
   Senator Kennedy said, "Both the Eagles and Patriots have had remarkable seasons, and this Super Bowl shapes up to be one of the best ever. The Patriots have an extraordinary ability to rise to tough challenges, and I'm hopeful they'll do it again." He added, "As much as my staff and I enjoy lobster rolls from Legal Seafood, we also enjoy cheesesteaks, especially when Senator Santorum is buying!" 
   Santorum also added, "I look forward to Senator Kennedy delivering a lunch of Legal Sea Foods for my staff and me, as we serenade him with the Eagles fight song."
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610; Melissa Wagoner, 202/224-4543. 
 
 