SEN. SANTORUM COMMENTS ON BUSH'S SECOND TERM AGENDA SET FORTH IN STATE OF THE UNION ADDRESS
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, issued the following statement regarding President Bush's State of the Union Address:  
   "Tonight, the President has made his domestic agenda clear-future generations should not inherit our current Social Security problems," Santorum said. "The impact of the debate on Social Security is of great significance to our children and grandchildren and we do not have the option to put Social Security reform off any longer. Social Security is currently unsustainable as is because of drastically changing demographics due to the imminent decline in the worker to retiree ratio. Congress must work in a bipartisan fashion to save and secure Social Security for our children and grandchildren, allowing younger workers the option to build a nest egg by saving part of their Social Security taxes in personal retirement accounts. 
   "The President also spoke tonight about extending the compassion of America by promoting a culture of life and supporting community and faith-based organizations," said Santorum. "I look forward to working with the President on these initiatives. I recently introduced the Marriage, Opportunity, Relief, and Empowerment (MORE) Act, which preserves, protects, and promotes marriage as a core institution in American society; reforms the welfare system to emphasize work, independence, and self-sufficiency; strengthens America's working families; and encourages charitable giving programs to help those in need in our society. 
   "As noted in his Inaugural Address and repeated tonight, the President is dedicated to advancing the spread of freedom and democracy, particularly in the Middle East," said Santorum. "I am pleased that President Bush spoke directly to the men and women serving in Iraq and Afghanistan and acknowledged the significance of their work in helping the people of Iraq, Afghanistan, and the Middle East hold historic elections, advance freedom, and continue on the path to democracy. 
   "I look forward to working with President Bush in his second term to reform Social Security; keep America safe from future terrorist attacks; make tax cuts permanent and simplify the tax code; develop a comprehensive energy policy; support education and job training opportunities; promote strong and healthy families; and create an atmosphere of opportunity and personal ownership."
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 