SEN. SANTORUM ANNOUNCES EXTENSION OF IMPORTANT PROGRAM FOR PENNSYLVANIA DAIRY FARMERS
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference and member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, today announced the Milk Income Loss Contract (MILC) program will be extended through 2007, when Congress plans to consider all major farm programs. The U.S. House of Representatives voted to pass the budget reconciliation bill yesterday, which included the MILC extension.  
   "As a member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, I was pleased to learn that the U.S. House has agreed to retain the MILC program in the budget reconciliation bill," said Senator Santorum. "As a representative of the fourth largest dairy producing state in the nation, I was proud to lead the fight for the extension of the MILC program." 
   The MILC program supplements dairy producers during market downturns by providing dairy farmers with a compensatory payment whenever the minimum monthly market price of milk falls below a trigger price. Senator Santorum has been a long time supporter of the MILC program and introduced S. 307, the MILC Extension Act, in February of 2005. 
   In addition to the MILC program extension, the budget reconciliation bill contained other significant victories for Pennsylvania farmers. Senator Santorum worked to insure that a House provision - which would have terminated the Agriculture Management Assistance (AMA) program - was not included in the final conference report. The AMA program was created to help states who are underserved by the USDA's crop insurance program to develop and implement risk management products. 
   "It is my hope that we can build on these victories for Pennsylvania agriculture as I work with my colleagues on the Senate Agriculture Committee to develop the 2007 Farm Bill," said Senator Santorum. "I look forward to promoting our state's priorities and making sure the needs of our state's agriculture industry are properly addressed in the 2007 Farm Bill."
 
 