'A PROMISING WEEK IN IRAQ'
 The headlines from Iraq this past week were a welcome and positive sign that the transition of Iraq from an oppressive dictatorship to a representative democracy is well on the way to fruition. When the forces of the United States and its Coalition allies entered Iraq more than 15 months ago, we made a promise to the Iraqi people to bring an end to Saddam Hussein's brutal regime - the only government many Iraqis have ever known - and return to them control over their own country. This promise has not been an easy one to keep, and Americans and Iraqis alike have made the ultimate sacrifice to fight the forces of oppression and terror. But as the events of this past week have demonstrated, our promise to the Iraqi people will be kept.  
   On Monday morning, Americans awoke to learn of the surprise handover of power from Ambassador Paul Bremer and the Coalition Provisional Authority to the new interim Iraqi government, a transition that occurred a full two days before the June 30 deadline. In contrast to the quiet ceremony that accompanied the transition of sovereignty, on Thursday the world witnessed an unrepentant Saddam Hussein brought into an Iraqi court of justice in an open and public proceeding. Though the proximity of these events may be coincidental, both hold the same hopeful message about the creation of a free and democratic Iraq. 
   Only a few short months ago, commentators filled the airwaves telling us that a June 30 transfer date was unrealistic because forming a government broadly acceptable to the Iraqi people was next to impossible. Thankfully, such dire predictions have turned out not to be the case. United Nations envoy Lakhdar Brahimi, who was dispatched to Iraq to help facilitate the transitional Iraqi government, ultimately served to merely give his blessing to a slate of officials who had been chosen in a show of unity by the former Iraqi Governing Council. Further, a recent poll conducted by an Iraqi newspaper found that 68 percent of Iraqis supported the new government, with 73 percent of the public approving of Prime Minister Allawi, and 84 percent supporting Iraqi President Al-Yawir. 
   It was at the behest of the Iraqi government that the Coalition agreed to transfer sovereignty two days ahead of schedule. The early transfer was not a sign of weakness in the face of terrorism, but rather showed the strong foundations of the Iraqi transitional government and its close working relationship with the Coalition. This promising development can only help strengthen the Iraqi government and its goal of achieving a democratic government. 
   One day after the scheduled handover date, Iraq's former dictator was brought into an Iraqi court as the first step in what will undoubtedly be a long process of bringing him and his brutal regime to justice for crimes against the Iraqi people. Accorded the rights of a defendant in a criminal trial - the rights his executioners denied so many others - Saddam was read the charges against him by an Iraqi judge. After a half-hour proceeding, an alternately weary and defiant Saddam Hussein was returned to the custody of the Iraqi government with U.S. forces assisting as guards. This brief court appearance is a promising first step to putting the murderous reign of Saddam Hussein and his henchmen firmly in Iraq's past, leaving Iraqis free to create a new future. 
   While the events of this week are just the beginning of the transition to a fully free and democratic Iraq, they are necessary and should leave the people of Iraq filled with great hope. A fully free and democratic Iraq will take time. But the events of this week proved that that time will indeed come.
 
 