SEN. SANTORUM CONGRATULATES PITTSBURGH ORGANIZATION FOR RECEIVING HIGH HONORS FROM DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, announced today that Catalyst Connection located in Pittsburgh, recently received the 2006 Excellence in Economic Development Award from the U.S. Department of Commerce for enhancing regional competitiveness. The award recognizes Catalyst Connection's commitment to sound, research-based, market driven economic development in helping grow the local economy.  
   "Catalyst Connection has displayed an impressive commitment to economic development by helping small- and medium-sized high tech manufacturers improve their competitiveness and performance, and this honor is well deserved," said Senator Santorum. "Their efforts continue to make the Pittsburgh region a great place to live, work, and do business." 
   "The winners of EDA's Excellence Awards represent the best and brightest economic development methods and practices in use today. Their commitment to sound, research-based, market-driven economic development is helping America's communities grow their economies and create jobs. I am grateful for their participation in our national awards program," said U.S. Assistant Secretary for Economic Development Sandy K. Baruah. 
   Nominations are made in specific categories announced each year, and nominees are evaluated by a Selection Panel appointed by the Assistant Secretary for Economic Development. 
   This year, nominations were taken in seven categories: Excellence in Urban or Suburban Economic Development; Excellence in Rural Economic Development; Excellence in Enhancing Regional Competitiveness; Excellence in Economic Adjustment Strategies; Excellence in Technology-led Economic Development; Excellence in Community and Faith-based Social Entrepreneurship; and Excellence in Innovation. 
   EDA serves as a venture capital resource to meet the economic development needs of distressed communities throughout the United States. EDA's mission is to lead the federal economic development agenda by promoting innovation and competitiveness, preparing American regions for growth and success in the worldwide economy.
 
 