SEN. SANTORUM ATTENDS GETTYSBURG NATIONAL BATTLEFIELD MUSEUM, VISITOR CENTER GROUNDBREAKING CEREMONY
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today attended the groundbreaking ceremony for the Gettysburg National Battlefield Museum and Visitor Center.  
   "It is a great honor to join in this wonderful occasion," said Senator Santorum. "As a United States Senator, I have been a strong advocate for the effort to restore and preserve this historic battlefield so the story of the Battle of Gettysburg can be shared with future generations. This groundbreaking is the culmination of the vision of the National Park Service working in partnership with private enterprise to capture the epoch events of the bloodiest battle on American soil." 
   "Gettysburg has long deserved a museum and visitor center that properly honors the sacrifices of the men who fought here, that preserves the artifacts and archives from that era in our nation's history, that excites and inspires new generations of visitors about what happened here, and that helps visitors understand how the events of that era connect to what is going on in our world today, " said Gettysburg Foundation President Robert C. Wilburn. 
   The Gettysburg National Battlefield Museum Foundation, a private, nonprofit educational organization has created a partnership with the National Park Service to help solve the park's funding challenges, and to extend the reach of this national treasure. The partnership helps protect the resources of the park and allows visitors to better understand the sacred ground of America's most revered Civil War battlefield. 
   "The battlefield is a sobering and tangible reminder of the sacrifice and courage of thousands of men whose convictions and actions determined the fate of this country. On the site where more than 51,000 men were killed, wounded or captured our obligation is clear; we must thoughtfully, thoroughly, and accurately present the Battle of Gettysburg and its significance in the context of the Civil War," said Senator Santorum. 
   Senator Santorum has been a strong supporter of the Gettysburg National Military Park, the Battlefield Museum and Visitor Center, and the Borough of Gettysburg. His support includes sponsoring P.L. 106-290, to expand the boundaries of the Park to include the Wills House, where President Abraham Lincoln finished writing the Gettysburg Address. Subsequent to passing this legislation, Senator Santorum secured $6.7 million for the restoration of Wills House. Restoring the Wills House ensures that the role of the Borough is included as part of the story of the Battle. Visitors will want to include the Wills House and Downtown Gettysburg as part of their experience. 
   "Nearly two million people visit the Gettysburg National Military Park each year. The new world class museum and visitor center will create a home to teach one of the greatest historical events in our Commonwealth and nation's history," said Senator Santorum.
   Contact: Robert Traynham, 202/224-0610.
 
 