SEN. SANTORUM APPOINTED CHAIRMAN OF SENATE AGRICULTURE SUBCOMMITTEE
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, announced today that he has been appointed Chairman of the Senate Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry Committee's Subcommittee on Research, Nutrition, and General Legislation for the 109th Congress.  
   "I believe that through my chairmanship of this subcommittee I will be able to assist Pennsylvania's farmers by championing research initiatives that are studied at educational institutions across the Commonwealth," Santorum said. 
   Santorum will oversee the authorization of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission Act. Santorum will also have oversight over the Women, Infants and Children (WIC) program, and many federal domestic nutrition programs. These programs are intended to promote good health and nutrition by providing low-income individuals with additional means for a healthy diet. 
   "I am aware that nutrition programs are very important for low-income families in Pennsylvania and throughout the country. I believe that government should be responsive to the individual needs of lower income Americans," Santorum said. "These programs play a crucial role in providing food and nutritional counseling and education to millions of low-income individuals." 
   Senator Saxby Chambliss (R-GA), Chairman of the Senate Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry Committee, appointed Santorum as subcommittee chairman. 
   "Rick Santorum's subcommittee chairmanship is a good fit for the Senate Agriculture Committee and as an influential voice for Pennsylvania agriculture," said Chairman Saxby Chambliss (R-GA). "The American farmer's competitive edge in the world comes from innovation through education and research which is handled by his subcommittee. Rick's choice to lead this subcommittee also reflects his commitment to agriculture's role in nutrition, like the child nutrition program, which helps feed our country's children." 
   Santorum also serves on the Agriculture Committee's Production and Price Competitiveness Subcommittee, where he will work to continue supporting initiatives to reform federal agricultural subsidy programs that have outlived their usefulness. Santorum is a member of the Senate Rural Health Care Caucus, and serves on the Senate Finance Committee, which oversees trade issues important to the farming industry. 
   "I am committed to continue working with my colleagues on issues that are important to Pennsylvania's rural communities - such as ensuring strong markets and fair prices for farmers and family access to quality health care," said Senator Santorum.
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 