SEN. SANTORUM SPEAKS OUT AGAINST GOVERNMENT OF IRAN
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today testified before the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations' hearing, "A Nuclear Iran: Challenges and Responses." The hearing focused on the national security threat Iran presents to the United States and the West. A panel of experts testified on the events transpiring in Iran and the ways the international community can respond. Sen. Santorum discussed Iran's human right violations, its nuclear aspirations, and the Iran Freedom and Support Act. The Senator also delivered a speech on the Senate floor today to draw attention to the threat posed by Iran. 
   Senator Santorum introduced S. 333 the Iran Freedom and Support Act in 2005 - now with 44 cosponsors - which calls for vigorous support for peaceful change in Iran. The Iran Freedom and Support Act has been referred to the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. Senator Santorum encouraged members of the committee to report the legislation to the full Senate for consideration. This legislation authorizes assistance for pro-democracy groups who are committed to democratic ideals and principles in Iran.
   The Iran Freedom and Support Act declares that it should be U.S. policy to support efforts by the Iranian people to exercise self-determination over their form of government; and that the U.S. should actively support a national referendum in Iran with oversight by international observers and monitors to certify the integrity and fairness of the referendum. The bill authorizes $10 million in assistance to pro-democracy groups committed to democratic ideas and principles.
   In his testimony, Senator Santorum recommended that the United Nations Security Council consider "smart sanctions" against Iran including a travel ban on Iran's leaders, a ban on international flights by Iran Air, a ban on receiving cargo on Iranian government-owned ships, and aggressive action to see that government leaders in Iran responsible for human rights abuses and executions are brought to trial.
   "Iran's nuclear ambitions cannot be ignored any longer," said Senator Santorum. "Iran's aggressive behavior and its concealment of ongoing nuclear activities will not be tolerated. The Senate must move forward with the Iran Freedom and Support Act, which would hold the current regime in Iran accountable for its threatening behavior and support a transition to democracy in Iran."
 
 