SEN. SANTORUM DISPLAYS PORTRAIT OF FOSTER YOUTH IN HIS OFFICE TO HIGHLIGHT NATIONAL ADOPTION AWARENESS MONTH
  The Voice for Adoption Portrait Project presented the office of Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA) with a photograph of a foster youth from Pennsylvania that will be displayed in the Senator's Washington, D.C. office until November 10th to raise awareness of the importance of adoption.  
   "As a father of six children, I am proud to display the portrait of Dontae in my congressional office," said Senator Santorum, Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference. "Every child should have the benefit of being raised in a home with a permanent family and enjoy the wonders of childhood. Moreover, I believe that adoption needs to become a viable and more affordable option for more families in Pennsylvania and across the country." 
   November is National Adoption Awareness Month with a special focus on the adoption of children currently in the foster care system. Voice for Adoption hopes to raise awareness and encourage families to explore the adoption of children in the foster care system. 
   "I would like to thank Voice for Adoption and their volunteers who work so diligently to ensure that adoptions are finalized and children are united with loving, permanent families. I would also like to thank the families across Pennsylvania who have opened their hearts and their homes by adopting children. Pennsylvania is blessed with such generous people willing to make foster children a part of their families and I encourage others to follow their example," said Senator Santorum. 
   Senator Santorum is a member of the Congressional Coalition on Adoption. Created in 1985, the Congressional Coalition on Adoption (CCA) is a bipartisan caucus of members of Congress dedicated to improving adoption policy and raising congressional and public awareness of the tens of thousands of foster children in the United States in need of permanent, safe, and loving homes.
   Contact: Robert Traynham, 202/224-0610. 
 
 