SEN. SANTORUM PLEASED BY SAVINGS FOR SENIORS UNDER NEW MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG COVERAGE
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference and member of the Senate Finance Committee, which has sole jurisdiction over the Medicare program, commented on recent Medicare drug coverage developments announced over the past week by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) and Medicare Today-an organization partnering in the implementation process. 
   "The President and Congress made a promise to America's seniors to deliver a better Medicare, including life-saving prescription drug coverage that will improve the overall health of our nation's seniors," said Senator Santorum. "I am excited by CMS' recent announcement that Medicare prescription drug coverage beginning January 1, 2006, will have an average monthly premium of $32.20. This translates to billions of dollars in savings to both Medicare beneficiaries and American taxpayers."
   CMS also announced that Medicare beneficiaries will be able to choose between highly competitive prescription drug coverage that will cost less than originally expected. Included in the preliminary information are 2 plans with premiums less than $20, and 5 plans with premiums between $20 and $24.99.
   State-by-state analysis recently released by Medicare Today underscores CMS' projections about extra savings for seniors. Analysis suggests that Pennsylvania seniors who qualify for extra help will save an average of $1,459 a year. Seniors who do not qualify for extra help will still save an estimated $679 in out-of-pocket drug spending each year. 
   "The latest announcement by CMS illustrates that the competition between plans is producing significant cost savings to the benefit of our nation's seniors," said Senator Santorum. "All seniors with limited income and resources should have received the Social Security Administration (SSA) application for extra help. I strongly encourage Pennsylvania seniors to return this application to SSA if they have not yet done so, as they have the most to gain by the new drug coverage. I am pleased by the latest cost saving projections, and I look forward to continuing to work on behalf of Pennsylvania's seniors to ensure a successful implementation of this historic drug coverage."
   Contact: Robert Traynham, 202/224-0610.
 
 