CONTINUE TO BACK OUR TROOPS
  Since the commencement of Operation Enduring Freedom in October 2001 and Operation Iraqi Freedom in March 2003, thousands of American men and women have bravely taken on the challenge of defeating tyranny, promoting democracy, and strengthening our nation. In the nearly five years our troops have been engaged in conflict in the Middle East, our soldiers, sailors, airmen and marines have given a total effort in order to make our world a safer place. The road has not been easy - America has lost many fine military personnel - but it is critical that we stay the course and give our people the support and recognition to enable them to spread democracy around the world.  
   Following the horrifying events of September 11, 2001, we have not experienced an attack by foreign forces on American soil. A large portion of the credit for our nation's security must be attributed to the fact that the Global War on Terror has taken the fight to the terrorists' backyard, and we owe this primarily to the sacrifices of the men and women who have selflessly elected to serve in our nation's armed forces. 
   Pennsylvania has suffered the loss of more of our native sons and daughters than every state but two. With the number of Pennsylvania casualties coming more frequently than at any other point during the war, the past few weeks have been particularly somber for our state. In response, Governor Rendell ordered the flags in the Commonwealth to be flown at half-mast. This gesture is appropriate and welcome - the memories of these men and women must be honored. But in order for them to be truly honored, the mission that they believed in enough to give their lives for must be completed. 
   Make no mistake; there have been many positive developments coming out of Iraq this summer as well. Currently, the interim Iraqi government is working on the development of a constitution. Two of the three major factions in the country, the Shiite Arabs and the Kurds, have agreed to support the provisions of the Constitution. To date, the Sunni Arab leaders are still opposed to some of the conditions in the proposed document, but it is important to remember that agreements of this significance do not come about over night. In the United States, it took over ten years for our founding fathers to create a constitution that was ratified by the states. Our founders moved with deliberation and established a document that is widely considered one of the greatest political documents in history. It is important that we are patient and that we continue to give the Iraqi government the support it needs as it works towards the creation of this historic document - a document that should serve as a beacon of hope for all residents of the Middle East. 
   Throughout this summer, our troops have also made significant progress and contributions towards bettering the lives of the Iraqi people. In July, members of the 48th Brigade Combat Team visited the Arab J'Bour village to follow up on the progress of military engineering efforts to set up pumping stations that enable the Tigris River to irrigate local farms. Army soldiers with the 2nd Battalion, 7th Infantry Regiment, 1st Brigade Combat Team, Task Force Liberty have worked with Iraqi health officials to open a hospital in Owja, Iraq that was previously available only to Saddam Hussein's family and friends. Other examples include the opening of a new water treatment plant in Sadr City, the distribution of thousand of frozen poultry products to Iraqi families, and providing school supplies for the families of Iraqi soldiers. Thanks to the members of our armed services, the people of Iraq are better off today than they were two years ago. 
   We know that leaving before the job is done turns Iraq over to an insurgency of foreign jihadists and Sunni Baathists, both committed to opposing the creation of a democratic government in Iraq. Our troops are working with the Iraqi military so that they will be able to repel and crush these anti-democratic forces. With this in mind, our troops capacity to work with and train the Iraqis is essential to our ability to reduce our presence in Iraq. 
   There is still much to do before the missions in Iraq and Afghanistan are completed, but we cannot underestimate the importance of following through and finishing the job. Equally important, we cannot underestimate the incredible commitment, bravery, and sacrifice made by our troops. These are individuals who are committed to the causes of democracy, the protection of human rights, and the guarantee of political freedom. We can never repay these courageous soldiers for the sacrifices they make on our behalf, but as we move forward and the difficult work in the Middle East continues it is crucial that Americans across the nation, from the members of Congress to every citizen in every state, support our troops.
   Contact: Tim Pearson, 202/224-0610.
 
 