SEN. SANTORUM VISITS SACRED HEART HOSPITAL IN ALLENTOWN
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today was in Allentown at Sacred Heart Hospital to tour the hospital's Transitional Care Facility, Lab, and Emergency Department, and meet with hospital administrators. 
   Senator Santorum supported $450,000 in federal funding in the Fiscal Year 2007 Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education (LHE) Appropriation bill committee report; as well as, $700,000 in the Fiscal Year 2005 LHE Appropriations bill.  
   "We really appreciate the visit by Senator Santorum as well as his advocacy in the 2007 Appropriations Bill. From its center city location, Sacred Heart Hospital has been serving the health needs of the sick and poor of Allentown since its inception in 1912. This funding will better position us to continue to provide quality, compassionate healthcare to this community for the foreseeable future," said President and CEO of Sacred Heart Hospital, Frank Sparandero, M.D. 
   "I am pleased to be here at Sacred Heart Hospital today. As a U.S. Senator, one of my highest priorities is to ensure that all Pennsylvanians have access to quality health care and I will continue to work to secure funding for Sacred Heart in the 2007 LHE bill," said Senator Santorum. "Part of providing quality health care is having enough doctors and nurses to provide care to people and right now one of the biggest challenges our state faces is keeping doctors and nurses from leaving due to exorbitant medical liability insurance." 
   In just six years, from 1998 to 2004, the number of permanent full-time equivalent physicians has fallen from 36,500 to 32,000. This decline is largely due to the rising cost of medical liability insurance. Pennsylvania has one of the highest liability payouts per physician, at $16,000, compared to the national average of $6,000. From 1994 to 2004, the percentage of Pennsylvania doctors in training that stayed in the state after completing their residency fell from over 50 percent to less than 8 percent. It is estimated that by 2010, Pennsylvania could face a shortfall of nearly 10,000 physicians based upon current trends related to supply and demand. 
   Ob/Gyn providers have been among the hardest hit with skyrocketing medical liability insurance costs. According to a survey conducted by the American Association of Medical Colleges, only 28 percent of Ob/Gyn residents trained in Pennsylvania planned to stay and practice in Pennsylvania once they completed their residencies. The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists has listed Pennsylvania as one of its "Red Alert States" where the care of patients is most at risk due to the medical liability insurance crisis. 
   "Frivolous lawsuits have driven up medical liability insurance premiums, restricting and in some cases preventing patients' access to quality healthcare - particularly obstetrical and gynecological services," said Senator Santorum. "This crisis has led many physicians to severely restrict the scope of their practices, and some have been forced to leave their practice entirely. These changes are having a direct impact on Pennsylvanians, dangerously limiting the access that Pennsylvania women have to the quality healthcare providers they need at the time they need and depend on it the most."
  In May 2006 Senator Santorum introduced legislation to ensure that women and babies have the access to care they deserve. The bill, S. 23 - the Healthy Mothers and Healthy Babies Access to Care Act - would cap non-economic damages, thus reducing medical liability costs for providers and increasing access to medical care for patients. The bill will not limit recovery of any economic damages. The benefit for Pennsylvanians is that when the cost of liability insurance premiums goes down, patient access, quality health care, and affordability goes up.
 
 