TEMPORARY SOCIAL SECURITY WORKERS TO KEEP JOBS THROUGH MARCH 4
  Sens. Rick Santorum (R-PA) and Arlen Specter (R-PA) and Rep. Paul E. Kanjorski (D-PA-11) today announced that the 77 temporary workers at the Social Security Data Operations Center will keep their jobs through March 4, 2006. These workers were scheduled to be laid off effective Tuesday, January 31, 2006. Last Wednesday, Rep. Kanjorski met with these workers and was joined by representatives from Sens. Santorum and Specter's offices.  
   Senator Santorum, Senator Specter and Congressman Kanjorski worked together to persuade the Social Security Administration to give every consideration to these employees. The Data Operations Center hired 131 employees in 2005 with the opportunity to be employed there for up to one year. Citing funding issues, the Social Security Administration announced it would lay off 77 of those workers effective January 31, a date that was well before the planned one-year termination date. 
   "I am pleased the Social Security Administration agreed to extend the time of employment for individuals hired as temporary employees of the Administration's Wilkes-Barre Data Operations Center. These individuals were facing abrupt job termination, but were hired with the understanding that they would have a job with the Center for approximately one year," said Senator Santorum. "I worked with Senator Specter and Representative Kanjorski to extend the time of employment for these individuals so they can continue to provide for their families and find suitable employment elsewhere." 
   "I am pleased that the Social Security Administration has made the wise decision today to give these 77 employees additional time to secure new employment. Many of them come from single parent families and would have no other source of income while they look for new employment. It is my hope that, given their experience, these employees will be given every opportunity to apply for jobs that may arise in the future with the Social Security Administration," Congressman Kanjorski said.
 
 