SEN. SANTORUM DELIVERS KEYNOTE ADDRESS AT PRAYER BREAKFAST IN BERKS COUNTY
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, traveled to Berks County today where he delivered the keynote address to over 350 people at Reading Mayor Tom McMahon's Prayer Breakfast, hosted by the Reading Berks Conference of Churches (RBCC). Sen. Santorum and Mayor McMahon were also joined by Patrick Patterson, program specialist for the Administration for Children and Families in Philadelphia; and Andrew Weidman, Managing Partner of Reinsel & Company, LLP.  
   The annual Mayor's Prayer Breakfast serves as an opportunity for elected officials, members of the faith-based community and the public to gather together in an effort to foster cooperation through communication and fellowship. 
   "It is so important that political leaders and members of the faith-based community come together like we have today in Berks County to learn about local initiatives and programs that help those in need," said Santorum. "Under the leadership of Mayor McMahon and the Reading-Berks Conference of Churches, mentoring programs like the Reading Breakfast Club help local youths in at-risk situations live up to their full potential." 
   The Reading Breakfast Club is a faith-based program for youths from ages 11-16 operated by the Reading-Berks Conference of Churches. The program began in Reading in 1999 based on a similar program used in Cincinnati, Ohio that was designed to develop mentoring relationships between Christian men and women and youths in the community. 
   Reverend Calvin Kurtz with the Reading Berks Conference of Churches said that over the past five years, approximately 200 students have participated in the Reading Breakfast Club. Approximately forty volunteers from 20 different congregations in Reading have served as mentors in this program. 
   Youths who may have high-risk factors such as low grades, disciplinary problems and behavioral issues, but who also possess above-average intelligence, creativity and high energy levels, are selected to participate in weekly breakfasts with these young men and women. Many of these youths are a part of one-parent families. According to the participants, only about 25% of their homes have an adult male role model, and in approximately half of these families is the biological father married to the mother. (-more-) "Healthy families with a father and a mother build homes that foster a strong family foundation," said Santorum. "Studies confirm the critical role that fathers play within a family, and illustrate the negative impact their absence has on a child." 
   Senator Santorum has been supportive of legislative efforts to encourage men to take responsibility for the children they father. Santorum is a cosponsor of the Responsible Fatherhood Act, which is included in the current welfare reauthorization legislation. Fatherhood provisions in the welfare bill include $75 million each year for five years for demonstration programs, media campaigns, and a national clearinghouse for responsible fatherhood programs. 
   In addition, Senator Santorum, along with Senator Joe Lieberman (D-CT), sponsored the Charity, Recovery and Empowerment Act of 2003 (CARE) Act, which passed both the House and Senate last year. This widely bipartisan bill is currently facing obstruction tactics as Senate Democratic Leadership is blocking the bill from going to conference. 
   "The Charity, Recovery and Empowerment Act of 2003 (CARE) Act and the Charitable Giving Act each reflect significant portions of the President's Faith-Based and Community Initiatives by targeting new public and private resources for the struggle to overcome poverty," said Santorum. "Senator Lieberman and I have been working to pass this legislation to help faith-based organizations become more effective partners with government and community organizations in providing social services. This is not a time for partisan politics." 
   "It is a pleasure to welcome Senator Santorum to Reading's Annual Prayer Breakfast," said Mayor Tom McMahon. "These collaborations of our faith-based community with our neighborhood groups are helping us solve the tough problems with cooperative and creative solutions." 
   "The coming together of elected and community leaders today in support of faith-based programs is an important part of building and maintaining strong families and strong communities," said Santorum.
   Contact: Kristen Vanderpool, 202/224-0610.
 
 