SEN. SANTORUM RECEIVES INAUGURAL FIDELIS AWARD FROM ST. THOMAS MORE SOCIETY
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, was presented with the St. Thomas More Society's inaugural Fidelis Award at a mass and dinner today in Harrisburg. The Fidelis Award recognizes and honors the Senator as an individual who holds the same ideals as St. Thomas More, who is recognized by the Catholic Church as the patron saint of lawyers.  
   "I am honored to be the first recipient of the Fidelis Award. During my tenure in the United States Congress I have always tried to apply my faith to my work," said Senator Rick Santorum. "I am blessed to have the support of my loving wife, Karen, and our beautiful children, who have helped me to remain strong in my commitment to my faith, and the virtues and values that are important to a civil and just society." 
   St. Thomas More Society members were asked to submit nominations of prominent Catholic lawyers or public figures who have shown an uncompromising commitment to the Catholic teachings and moral values, and who embody the virtues of faithfulness and integrity championed by St. Thomas More. The Society's Board of Governors selected Senator Santorum from the slate of nominated individuals, and the Harrisburg Diocese ratified the selection. The late Bishop Nicholas C. Dattilo of the Harrisburg Diocese granted the final approval for Senator Santorum to receive the award. 
   "Senator Santorum was selected for several reasons including his steadfast support of human life from conception to death, as well as his unwavering defense of marriage as a core institution in our society and as a union between a man and a woman," said Robert DeSousa, Chairman of the Fidelis Award Nomination Committee. "Senator Santorum and his wife Karen exemplify the strength and union of the family. They successfully balance a life of public service to their country, with the responsibilities and commitments to their faith and their children." 
   The Fidelis Award was established by the St. Thomas More Society to raise awareness among the community about the Society and the ideals and values for which it stands. The St. Thomas More Society of Central Pennsylvania is an organization of Catholic civil and canon lawyers affiliated with the Diocese of Harrisburg. The goals of the society are to promote the study and application of the principles of the Catholic Church as they relate to moral and legal problems confronted by the practice of law.
   Contact: Kristen Vanderpool, 202/224-0610.
 
 