SEN. SANTORUM: RESPONDING TO DISASTER
  Pennsylvanians have long thrived living on the shores of our rivers, rivers like the Delaware and the Susquehanna. They are recreational centers and a source of great natural beauty. But as we saw this week, they are also powerful forces of nature, capable of destroying in minutes that which we have spent a lifetime building. Due to consistent, extreme rainfall, we saw the true power of these rivers unleashed. It is at times like these that our friends and neighbors need us the most, and I have no doubt that the American people will respond.
   Pennsylvania has now been hit by two "100 year" level floods in the last three years. For many, going through such an ordeal twice in a lifetime, let alone three years, would be enough to break even the most resolute among us. Yet as I was traveling through some of the distressed regions early in the storm - places like New Hope - surveying the damage and fervently hoping the water would stop rising, what struck me the most was not the extent of the destruction but the incredible community spirit of those affected. I was amazed at the attitude of those who were, in many cases, watching their homes and businesses going underwater yet taking it very much in stride. 
   Instead of throwing in the towel and wallowing in their misfortune - certainly an approach that would have been well within their rights to take - they looked to the future, determined to clean up their homes and businesses and get back to living their lives. Eager to embrace the attitude that has pulled us through tough times in the past and will surely do so now, these proud folks were truly an inspiration. And I have no doubt that they will clean up, they will rebuild, and they will put their lives back together - nor do I doubt that the rest of Pennsylvania will respond, as we always do, with all the help we can muster.
   Already, the examples of the responsiveness and generosity we've become accustomed to in America are piling up. Instead of distancing themselves from the disaster and ensuring their own safety, countless Pennsylvanians moved towards the damage, looking to help in any way possible. PECO Energy workers rapidly shut off electricity, making sure there would be no problems with the electrical grids in affected areas. The Governor quickly deployed the Pennsylvania National Guard who, as they always do, provided a welcome infusion of calm professionalism, performing nearly 950 rescues by Thursday. In Bloomsburg Wednesday morning, the State Police rescued three people stranded on a rooftop. The American Red Cross set up shelters to house and feed those who were stranded. I could go on and on.
   The victims of this storm, their friends and neighbors, our first responders - all have done an incredible job of handling the immediate aftermath of these floods. Now we need to ensure that the level of commitment to those who need our help does not waver. On Thursday, Governor Rendell formally requested that the President expedite federal disaster assistance to thirty-four Pennsylvania counties. Shortly after, Senator Specter and I contacted the President in support of the Governor. I was able to speak with White House Chief of Staff Josh Bolten who assured me that as soon as FEMA made a recommendation, the President would immediately issue the declaration, making available needed federal assistance to Pennsylvania counties.
   But even with all the federal and state assistance that is surely on its way, those suffering the greatest damages will need all of our help. Among the characteristics that define our nation is the incredible capacity of the American people to give to others. When those around us face a time of great need, Americans respond like no other nation on earth. We witnessed this phenomenon during the tsunami of 2004, and again last summer when Katrina left a path of destruction across the Gulf Coast. Now it is our fellow Pennsylvanians who are facing challenges that were unforeseen and, for many of them, unimaginable - I encourage all to do whatever is in your power to assist them.
 
 