SENS. SANTORUM, SPECTER ANNOUNCE $5 MILLION IN FUNDING FOR FLIGHT 93 MEMORIAL
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, and Sen. Arlen Specter (R-PA), a Senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, announced that the Senate Appropriations Committee has approved $5 million in federal funding for land acquisition at the future site of the Flight 93 National Memorial in Somerset County as part of the Fiscal Year 2007 Interior Appropriations bill.  
   "As we approach the fifth anniversary of September 11, 2001, it is absolutely necessary that we begin construction of this memorial that will pay tribute to the brave men and women who decided to fight back when the terrorists took over that flight," said Senator Santorum. "The events of that fateful morning altered the course of history, and it is fitting that we in Pennsylvania pay homage to those heroes and erect a memorial that will never allow us to forget what happened on that day. I am pleased that I have been able to be an advocate on behalf of the victims' families to see that there are no further delays in fully honoring their loved ones who were America's first heroes in the War on Terror. Now, let's roll towards the construction of this long overdue tribute." 
   "Those of us who were in the Congress on September 11, 2001, may well owe our lives to the heroism of those who brought down that plane. Senator Santorum and I traveled to the site of the crash on that Friday, September 14, and participated in the first service there," Senator Specter said. "The site is hallowed ground and this Memorial, when finished, will be a fitting tribute for the heroes that lost their lives." 
   The memorial has received $2.65 million over the past four fiscal years for planning purposes, construction and statutory aid. However, additional land must be secured to meet the authorized boundary of the Memorial and to accommodate the large number of visitors to the Memorial, as well as to move forward with the design, planning and construction of the Memorial and associated visitor center.
 
 