SEN. SANTORUM TOURS NORTHEAST COUNTERDRUG TRAINING CENTER IN LEBANON COUNTY
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, traveled to Lebanon County today to receive a briefing on narcotics terrorism and training capabilities at the Northeast Counterdrug Training Center (NCTC).  
   The NCTC provides no-cost counterdrug training and education to law enforcement and drug demand reduction specialists across the 18 northeastern states, from Maine to Virginia and west to Wisconsin. The NCTC is congressionally funded through the Department of Defense and is managed by the Pennsylvania National Guard Counterdrug Program. 
   "The NCTC plays a vital role of protecting Pennsylvanians and all Americans from the drugs which are trafficked through our country that destroy the future of so many precious lives," said Senator Santorum. "It is important that we provide the men and women who are fighting the war against drugs with quality training and instruction." 
   For the past two years Senator Santorum has supported funding for the NCTC; they received $4.76 million through the FY 2004 Department of Defense, Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities appropriations, and most recently the Senate passed the FY 2005 Department of Defense, Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities appropriations in which they received $4 million. 
   NCTC has recently expanded the distance learning and on-line instructional capability of the training center. The use of distance learning techniques further reduces the cost of training and the time individuals spend away from their job and family. 
   "The Pennsylvania National Guard appreciates the time Senator Santorum has taken to see the Northeast Counterdrug Training Center's state of the art High Risk Entry facility," said Major Bob Hepner, Counterdrug Coordinator, NCTC. "We appreciate Senator Santorum's continuous support of the Pennsylavania National Guard and its initiatives." 
   Steve Gingrich, Executive Director of Counterdrug Operations, NCTC; Bob Hepner Counterdrug Coordinator, NCTC; and Major General Jessica Wright, Adjunct General of the Pennsylvania National Guard, briefed the Senator and escorted him on his tour of the facility. For more information on the NCTC please go to http://www.counterdrug.org/.
   Contact: Kristen Vanderpool, 202/224-0610.
 
 