SEN. SANTORUM DELIVERS BIG WIN FOR RETIRED PENNSYLVANIA MINE WORKERS
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today was joined by Cecil Roberts, International President of the United Mine Workers of America; Kim Malinky, President and CEO of Canonsburg Hospital; and Tom Hoffman, Vice President of External Affairs for Consol Energies to announce the extension of the United Mine Workers of America (UMWA) Health and Retirement Funds Drug Demonstration Program through Fiscal Year 2007. The program was set to expire today.  
   The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has agreed to extend the UMWA Funds Drug Demonstration Program through fiscal year 2007. The decision came as a direct result of Senator Santorum's persistent advocacy on behalf of this important program. 
   "It is of vital importance that we ensure the continuation of these benefits for the 55,000 individuals currently benefiting from the program--including 11,000 retired Pennsylvania miners and their families. As the grandson of a Pennsylvania miner, I understand how important this program is to these hard-working individuals and their families," said Senator Santorum. "As I travel throughout Pennsylvania, I continue to emphasize the importance of this program, and I was pleased to successfully advocate to ensure its extension." 
   "I congratulate Senator Santorum for his leadership in securing the continuation of the demonstration program," said Secretary of HHS, Michael I. Leavitt. "The continuation will ensure that innovative programs will remain available to chronically ill, frail and elderly beneficiaries." 
   The UMWA Health and Retirement Funds are in a risk-based demonstration program with the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) for Medicare Parts A and B and a Drug Demonstration Project. The UMWA Funds have administered Medicare benefits since the beginning of the Medicare program. The drug demonstration program was initiated in January 2001 to help CMS better understand the delivery of prescription drugs to beneficiaries. 
   "Senator Santorum's support for the continuation of this demonstration program shows how our elected officials - working together with a true bi-partisan spirit can help working families, including coal miners and their families," said UMWA International President Cecil E. Roberts. "On behalf of those families, I thank him for his support and his efforts to secure the continuation of these benefits for UMWA retirees and widows. I also thank Secretary Leavitt and all those at the Department of Health and Human Services who were involved with this for making the right decision to extend this demonstration."
   Contact: Robert Trayham, 202/224-0610.
 
 