VA AWARDS $38.5 MILLION TO PENNSYLVANIA TO ASSIST VETERANS
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, announced today that the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) has awarded a design-build contract for construction of a new parking garage in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, and has awarded four grants to assist homeless veterans in three Pennsylvania cities.  
   The VA awarded a $37 million design-build contract to P. J. Dick, Inc. of West Mifflin, Pennsylvania for the construction of a new parking garage at the University Drive Division of the VA's Pittsburgh Healthcare System. This parking garage is essential to support the recommendations of the VA CARES Commission to consolidate functions from the VA's Highland Drive facility at the VA's University Drive facility. 
   "The award of these funds by the Department of Veterans Affairs will give veterans better access to care at the University Drive facility," stated Senator Santorum. "These funds will ensure that there is no drop off in services provided to Pennsylvania veterans-a point I made to the VA CARES Commission in 2003. I want to thank Secretary Nicholson for his actions to award this contract and to make sure that this transition will happen with no drop in essential services." 
   "This project will ensure that Pittsburgh-area veterans continue to have convenient access to VA's world-class health care," said the Honorable R. James Nicholson, Secretary of Veterans Affairs. "VA's commitment to veterans remains unwavering and the Department is proud to dedicate itself to enhancing the quality of services provided to our American heroes who have worn the uniform." 
   In addition, Senator Santorum announced the award of four homeless veterans grants to help provide housing for homeless veterans in Pittsburgh, Philadelphia, and Allentown, Pennsylvania. These four grants, awarded to Veterans Place, Project HOME, Impact Services Corporation, and Victory House, total $1.56 million and will be applied to create transitional housing and a service center to serve this at-risk group of persons. 
   "These grants will enable local entities to provide essential services to homeless adults who have served in our armed forces," noted Senator Santorum. "I am proud that the Department has funded four projects to provide assistance that will provide shelter to these at-risk individuals. These vital funds help veterans recover from homelessness and to live as self-sufficiently and independently as possible." 
   "I want to thank Senator Santorum for sharing in VA's commitment to end chronic homelessness among the men and women who have served this country in uniform," Secretary Nicholson. "Only with the continued help of our friends in Congress, and through dedicated partnerships with community and faith-based organizations, can we ensure America's heroes are always taken care of and never, ever forgotten. 
   "Pennsylvania's veterans should know that they have a dedicated pubic servant in Senator Santorum representing them in Washington," Secretary Nicholson added. 
   These four homeless veterans grants were awarded to Veterans Place of Pittsburgh, Project HOME and Impact Services of Philadelphia, and Victory House of Bethlehem.
   Contact: Robert Trayham, 202/224-0610.
 
 