SEN. SANTORUM ANNOUNCES FUNDING FOR PLUM POX VIRUS COMPENSATION
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today announced the availability of funds for an important indemnity program for Pennsylvania fruit growers whose crops were affected by the Plum Pox Virus (PPV). Senator Santorum has been involved in the Plum Pox eradication effort since the disease was discovered in Pennsylvania in 1999.  
   Under an agreement with the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) of the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), funds will be released to fill a shortfall that had developed in the PPV eradication program. The supplemental funds will assure a seamless transition between program years. 
   "I am pleased to see the Department's commitment to this valuable program," said Senator Santorum. "Despite some lack of foresight in the USDA budgeting process, the release of emergency funds by APHIS confirms our contention that control and eradication efforts to date bode well for the eventual elimination of PPV from Pennsylvania." 
   Cost sharing is an important component of the eradication program, with Pennsylvania bearing the expense of treatment of infected orchards and compensation of growers in conjunction with the federal government. Recognizing that the integrity of the eradication program depends upon the cooperation and indemnification of producers, Senator Santorum and his colleagues in the Pennsylvania Congressional Delegation encouraged the Department to grant the additional funding. Senator Santorum serves as Chairman of the Research, Nutrition, and General Legislation Subcommittee of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry. 
   If necessary, the funds also will cover an additional two years compensation for growers whose production is interrupted beyond the standard three year treatment period. In certain instances, orchards must lie fallow longer to assure producers that the pathogen has successfully been eradicated from the area.
 
 