SEN. SANTORUM ANNOUNCES MORE THAN $2 MILLION FOR ANTI-GANG PILOT SITE PROGRAM FOR ROUTE 222 CORRIDOR IN EASTERN PENNSYLVANIA
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today announced that the Department of Justice (DOJ) has awarded $2,500,000 for an Anti-Gang Pilot Site Program for the Route 222 Corridor as part of the DOJ's Anti-Gang Initiative. Pennsylvania's Route 222 Corridor stretches through five cities - Easton, Bethlehem, Allentown, Reading, and Lancaster. The funding will go to the 222 Corridor Task Force who will work in concert with local county task forces.  
   "These are not areas many would expect to be hubs of gang activity, but because of the interstates, some changing demographics, and the exploitation of the limited resources of smaller communities, gangs have indeed made their presence known," said Senator Santorum. "I am very pleased that the Department of Justice awarded this grant to help combat the problems confronting our community due to the influx of gangs. It is my hope that the Anti-Gang Pilot Site Program will bring about real changes and establish safer, more secure neighborhoods and communities in the Route 222 Corridor." 
   The Corridor Task Force will focus on: law enforcement efforts on the most significant violent gang offenders in the area; prevention programs that focus on reducing youth gang crime and violence by addressing the full range of personal, family, and community factors that contribute to high levels of juvenile delinquency and gang activity; and re-entry assistance programs that will provide a variety of services, including transitional housing, job readiness and placement assistance, and substance abuse and mental health treatment. 
   On May 22, 2006, Senator Santorum joined United States Attorney General Alberto Gonzales in Allentown at a press conference to announce the launch of an Anti-Gang Initiative for the Route 222 Corridor. Senator Santorum and Attorney General Gonzales met with residents and toured a neighborhood to learn about how violent crime and gang violence is affecting communities.
 
 