SEN. SANTORUM PRESENTS CHECK FOR $200,000 OF FEDERAL FUNDING FOR OXFORD MAINSTREET
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today was in Oxford, Chester County to present federal funding for Oxford Mainstreet, Inc (OMI). Sen. Santorum secured the funding in the Transportation, Treasury, Judiciary, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies (TTHUD) Fiscal Year (FY) 2006 Appropriations bill.  
   "I am pleased that I was able to secure $200,000 for Oxford Mainstreet. This is a great non-profit organization, whose success is evident just by walking through downtown Oxford. Many Pennsylvania communities face the challenge of businesses leaving the downtown district; Oxford has defied the trend and is an excellent example of a community working together to keep its downtown vibrant through economic revitalization," said Senator Santorum. 
   OMI is a non-profit organization that promotes the revitalization and economic development of business and properties in the Borough of Oxford. OMI works to attract new entrepreneurs and investors to Oxford and promote community ownership in the borough. 
   "The funding award is a tremendous catalyst to Oxford's Downtown Streetscape Enhancement activity and is received with generous enthusiasm and renewed spirit. Oxford is a very special community with a lot of momentum and a lot of work left ahead," said April Ennis-Pierson, Mainstreet Manager, OMI. "This recent funding opportunity and Senator Santorum's support will help us implement a new and complimenting streetscape that will grab the attention of investors and the surrounding communities in our region. We owe him enormous gratitude for this vital start." 
   Since being elected to the United States Senate in 1994, Senator Santorum has traveled to each of Pennsylvania's sixty-seven counties every year. Throughout his tenure, Senator Santorum has been a strong supporter of various forms of federal funding for community and economic development in Pennsylvania. 
   Most recently, Senator Santorum offered an amendment to the FY 2007 Budget Resolution, which aims to increase funding for the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program by $1.3 billion, bringing the total CDBG funding included in the budget to $4.3 billion. The Senate passed the amendment on March 15, 2006 by a bipartisan vote of 60-38.
 
 