SEN. SANTORUM COMMENTS ON PASSING OF TERRI SCHIAVO
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, offered comments in response to the announcement today that Terri Schiavo lost the battle for her life through a slow, painful death following the removal of her feeding and hydration tube nearly two weeks ago:  
   "I am deeply saddened to hear that Terri Schiavo passed away because all efforts to reinstate her feeding tube were unsuccessful. Terri Schiavo, a daughter, a sister and most importantly an innocent person was penalized by a court system that grants convicted murderers fair treatment under the law, but not a woman whose only crime was not filing a living will. 
   "Congress and President Bush worked hard to do all we could to protect Terri's innocent life. I was pleased that my colleagues in the Senate and House understood the enormity of this issue and courageously passed unprecedented legislation to help save the life of Terri Schiavo. I thank President Bush for expeditiously signing this bill into law in an effort to protect and preserve Terri's life. 
   "The actions on the part of the Florida court and the U.S. Supreme Court are unconscionable. In California, Scott Peterson, a convicted murderer, was sentenced to death, yet his constitutional rights were upheld to ensure that he received due process and fair consideration in court. Terri Schiavo was given a death sentence, and passed away without the right to due process. 
   "Many people have fought heroically to save Terri's life and, as President Bush has said, to 'err on the side of life.' Ultimately, this fight was lost in the courts, and I am deeply disappointed that the courts chose to deny Terri the chance to live. Terri's family was willing to take care of her and they should have been given that chance. 
   "I want to express sincere sympathy to Terri's family in this most difficult time. My thoughts and prayers are with her family in the days and months ahead."
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610. 
 
 