SEN. SANTORUM SUPPORTS INITIATIVE TO EDUCATE PARENTS ON ENTERTAINMENT RATINGS
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, is encouraging senators to support an initiative by entertainment trade associations to designate June as "Entertainment Ratings and Labeling Awareness Month."  
   In a recent letter, Santorum, along with Senators Sam Brownback (R-KS), Herb Kohl (D-WI) and Joe Lieberman (D-CT) asked Senate colleagues to support an initiative aimed at educating America's parents about entertainment ratings and labeling systems. 
   During the month of June, movie theaters, music stores, online music providers, video stores, video game retailers and other entertainment retailers will be conducting a national education campaign on entertainment ratings. These outlets will be promoting awareness and encouraging the use of the movie and video game rating systems and music labeling systems through national public relations efforts and consumer outreach. 
   This initiative can help parents take an active role in their children's entertainment choices, as many parents are concerned about the impact of sex and violence in entertainment on children. 
   "As the father of six children, I am very concerned about the movies my children watch, the video games they play and the music they listen to," said Senator Santorum. "June is the perfect time to remind parents of the importance of the labeling systems, as children across the nation look forward to enjoying movies, music and video games during their summer vacations." 
   The awareness initiative is sponsored by the Coalition of Entertainment Retail Trade Associations (CERTA), which is comprised of five trade associations that represent companies providing movies, music and video games to the public: the Digital Media Association (DiMA), the Interactive Entertainment Merchants Association (IEMA), the National Association of Recording Merchandisers (NARM), the National Association of Theatre Owners (NATO) and the Video Software Dealers Association (VSDA).
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 