SENS. SANTORUM, SPECTER ANNOUNCE FUNDING FOR WORKFORCE INITIATIVE IN PHILADELPHIA
  Sen. Rick Santorum, Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, and Sen. Arlen Specter, Chairman of the Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations Subcommittee, announced today that the Economic Development Administration (EDA) of the U.S. Department of Commerce has provided a $600,000 grant for Innovation Philadelphia.  
   The grant will help support Innovation Philadelphia's Greater Philadelphia Global Partners (GP2), which is a private/public partnership of 31 Philadelphia-area organizations working to make economic globalization a positive factor for the area economy. 
   The funding will aid GP2 in expediting its primary goals, which include a Global Conference Initiative to promote economic globalization as a positive factor; a region-based global resource guide and website to serve as a reference work for international and area businesses; a global plan to increase the use of Philadelphia as a site for international conferences; and the expansion of the Collegiate Consortium for Workforce and Economic Development, to create appropriate worker development programs for businesses in Philadelphia. In November 2003, the City of Philadelphia and GP2 successfully hosted a United Nations Forum on Science and Technology Parks, which featured the Philadelphia Naval Business Center and University City Science Center. 
   "I am pleased that the Economic Development Administration has provided funding for this program; it is a reflection of its commitment to the development and promotion of economic growth in Southeast Pennsylvania," said Senator Santorum. "Through this funding, Pennsylvanians will have the opportunity to actively participate in shaping the future of the global economy and the impact it has on Philadelphia." 
   "The city of Philadelphia has tremendous resources to offer the international community as a trading partner, an education and economic development center, and a travel destination," Senator Specter said. "The Greater Philadelphia Global Partners program is helping to expand Philadelphia's global presence and promote the local economy. I applaud the Economic Development Administration for recognizing the important work of this program and providing this necessary funding."
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 