SEN. SANTORUM, REP. WELDON INTRODUCE BIPARTISAN FIRE SPRINKLER LEGISLATION TO HELP KEEP PENNSYLVANIANS SAFE
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, and Rep. Curt Weldon (R-PA), today introduced the Fire Sprinkler Incentive Act of 2005, respectively in the Senate and House. This bipartisan legislation significantly improves the tax incentive for the installation of automatic fire suppression systems. Sen. John D. Rockefeller IV (D-WV) is an original cosponsor of this legislation in the Senate, and Rep. Jim Langevin (D-RI) is an original cosponsor of the companion House legislation.  
   This legislation provides a tax incentive to classify automatic fire sprinkler systems as five-year property for purposes of tax depreciation as opposed to the current 27.5 or 39-year period for installations in residential rental and non-residential real property. 
   Most property owners are unable to upgrade fire countermeasures in buildings built prior to safety codes due to the financial burden of retrofitting. Furthermore, many state and local governments lack any requirements to include automatic sprinklers. 
   "In 2004, one hundred fire fighters were killed, and over 3,900 civilians died in fire deaths in the United States. Proper installation and regular inspection of fire sprinklers can help keep Pennsylvanians safe where they live and work," said Santorum. "This act offers incentives for the voluntary installation and retrofitting of existing buildings with automated sprinkler systems." 
   "The benefits of the fire sprinkler systems have long been known," said Weldon. "In fact, the National Fire Protection Association has no record of a fire killing more than two people in a public assembly, educational, institutional or residential building with a complete and fully operational automatic fire sprinkler system." 
   In 2003, fire was the cause of almost $12.3 billion in direct property damage. Sprinklers have been reported to reduce property damage by 43 to 70 percent in educational, residential, commercial, industrial, and manufacturing buildings. 
   Santorum and Weldon have garnered support for this legislation from several organizations including the American Insurance Association, American Fire Sprinkler Association, California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection, Campus Firewatch, Congressional Fire Services Institute, Independent Insurance Agents & Brokers of America, International Association of Arson Investigators, International Association of Fire Chiefs, International Fire Service Training Association, National Fire Protection Association, National Fire Sprinkler Association, National 
  Volunteer Fire Council, Society of Fire Protection Engineers, and Mechanical Contractors Association of America. 
   Santorum and Weldon are members of the Congressional Fire Services Caucus, the largest caucus in Congress comprised of over 300 members from both the House and Senate. The nonpartisan caucus is dedicated to a greater understanding about the needs and roles of our nation's firefighters and emergency services responders. CFSI works closely with the Fire Caucus in developing legislation, such as this fire sprinkler legislation, and providing objective information about the federal government's role vis a vis the fire service. 
   "As a former volunteer fire fighter, I have seen the casualties and destruction of building fires first hand," Weldon said. "Protecting fire fighters and our communities, as well as saving lives is one of our goals in Congress. I am convinced this legislation will provide the mechanism to 
  further protect the fire service and Pennsylvania's citizens." 
   "Passage of this bipartisan bill would help reduce the tremendous number of deaths and economic losses that fires cause every year," Santorum said. "This legislation provides long-needed safety incentives for building owners that will help fire fighters save lives across our nation."
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 