SEN. SANTORUM ANNOUNCES PRESCRIPTION DRUG DISCOUNT CARD, RELIEF FOR 150,000 LOW-INCOME PENNSYLVANIA SENIORS
  Today, seniors in Pennsylvania and across the nation may begin to sign up for the Medicare-approved prescription drug discount card, which will provide savings of at least 10-25 percent on the price of prescription drugs. Low-income seniors, including 150,000 in Pennsylvania, will be eligible for an additional $600 to help curb the high cost of prescription drugs.  
   "The President and Congress made a promise to America's seniors to deliver a better Medicare and a prescription drug benefit," said U.S. Senator Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference. "The prescription drug discount cards are the first step in delivering seniors a full prescription drug benefit." 
   The Medicare-endorsed Prescription Drug Discount Card Program was created through the bipartisan Medicare Modernization Act of 2003, signed into law by President Bush last November. The savings begin on June 1, 2004, but seniors can sign up for the individual prescription drug cards beginning today. 
   Currently, more than 40 million people are Medicare beneficiaries nationally, including 2,123,000 beneficiaries in Pennsylvania. Of those in Pennsylvania, 558,000 beneficiaries do not have any prescription drug coverage. The new Medicare-approved prescription drug discount cards primarily benefit these individuals by assisting them in paying for the drugs they need. Under the program, Pennsylvania has a combined total of 50 individual drug cards. The new discount cards work with PACE and PACENET, Pennsylvania's prescription drug benefit programs. The Pennsylvania Department of Aging has identified 150,000 PACE cardholders who qualify for the $600 credit. Those who have a 2004 annual income less than $12,570 (single person), or $16,863 (married couple), might qualify for the $600 credit on the Medicare- approved drug discount card. These cardholders will automatically be enrolled in the drug discount card program. "I encourage seniors, particularly those who are not PACE Eligible, to explore different options for prescription drug cards," said Santorum. "Seniors can choose the best plan that fits their prescription drug needs." "As a member of the Senate Finance Committee, which has jurisdiction over the Medicare program, I have been very concerned about the health care needs of senior citizens in Pennsylvania. Prescription drugs represent an ever-larger portion of health care expenses for seniors," said Santorum. "The discount card and $600 credit will offer relief for eligible seniors who struggle with limited budgets and the high costs of their medicines." 
   Pennsylvania seniors who have questions about their individual discount drug card options can contact the Center for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS), by calling the Medicare hotline at 1-800-MEDICARE, or by visiting the official Medicare website: . 
   *** It is important to note that Medicare does not send anyone (including salesmen) door-to-door and Medicare does not make recommendations on Medicare-approved drug discount cards. If you are contacted by someone trying to sell you a Medicare-approved drug discount card, do not give that person any personal information such as your Medicare number or your bank account number. You can also call the Inspector General's hotline to report Medicare fraud. The hotline number is 1- 800-HHS-TIPS (1-800-447-8477). http:// www.medicare.gov.
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 