SEN. SANTORUM HELPS KICK OFF NEW PRESCRIPTION DRUG DISCOUNT CARDS IN ALLEGHENY COUNTY
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, traveled to the Pittsburgh area on Monday to talk about the new prescription drug discount cards from Medicare.  
   The Medicare Modernization Act of 2003 (MMA) provides an opportunity for Medicare beneficiaries in Pennsylvania to enroll in a Medicare-approved prescription drug discount card to help lower drug costs. 
   "The President and Congress made a promise to America's seniors to deliver a better Medicare and a prescription drug benefit," said U.S. Senator Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference. "The prescription drug discount cards are the first step in delivering seniors a full prescription drug benefit." 
   Beginning in June, The Medicare Prescription Drug Discount Card Program will enable Medicare beneficiaries to save up to 25% on individual prescriptions. 
   The Medicare-approved drug discount card program comes with an immediate benefit for low-income Medicare beneficiaries: if your annual income is less than $12,570 as a single or less than $16,863 as a married couple you qualify for a $600 credit on the Medicare-approved drug discount card you choose. Enrollees can use that credit right away to help cover the cost of their medications. 
   There are more than 2 million beneficiaries in Pennsylvania; of those 558,000 do not have any prescription drug coverage. 
   Senator Santorum visited with the residents of Willow Heights, an independent living center owned by Ohio Valley General Hospital, to outline how the new discount card will work. 
   Eighty-five-year-old Lucy Shinsky, who takes 9 different medications a month, is currently enrolled in the PACE program. But as a Medicare recipient, she says she's anxious to ask the Senator about the savings Medicare may soon offer. 
   "I want to know how the new prescription drug discount card offered by Medicare will compare with the PACE program," says Shinsky. "I want to know what my medications will cost if I sign up for the discount card being offered by Medicare." 
   The new Discount Drug Cards work with PACE and PACENET. The Pennsylvania Department of Aging has already identified 150,000 PACE cardholders who qualify for the $600 credit. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) encourages those already participating in the PACE program to comparison shop; if their benefits are better under PACE then they should stay with PACE. If their benefits improve by dual enrollment then they should explore that option. 
   Screening options are available on the web at www.medicare.gov, or by calling 1-800- MEDICARE. TTY users should call 1-877-486-2048. 
   Senator Santorum also urges seniors to be smart shoppers. 
   "I encourage people not to sign up right away because increased competition will force the prices of the cards to change over the next several weeks," said Santorum. "My advice is to window shop and make a decision during the middle or end of May." 
   Medicare-approved drug discount cards will become effective on June 1st. It is important to remember that the Prescription Drug Discount Card Program is an interim program until the implimentation of the new Medicare Prescription Drug benefit in January 2006. 
   *It is important to note that Medicare does not allow legitimate drug cards to be marketed through unsolicited calls or visits to a constituent's home. Medicare beneficiaries should never share personal information with someone who approaches them claiming to be selling a Medicare product. Constituents who believe they have experienced drug card fraud should call 1-800-MEDICARE or the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Office of the Inspector General at 1-800-447-8477 or a local law enforcement agency.*
   Contact: Amy Hybels, 202/224-0610.
 
 