SEN. SANTORUM COMMENTS ON 2004 ELECTION
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today issued the following statement regarding Election Day 2004: 
   "I am proud and honored to have been a part of the successful, positive and well-managed efforts for President Bush. The results that we saw throughout last night and early this morning reflected the sense of the nation at this time and the priorities that are important to Americans.  
   "I extend congratulations to my friend and colleague Arlen Specter, who has been reelected to serve a fifth term in the United States Senate. He will continue to be a strong representative for Pennsylvanians in the Senate, and I look forward to continue working with him. 
   "I am pleased that Republicans will retain the majority in the United States Senate and that the American people sent a message to Washington that the political game of obstruction is not productive for the country. 
   "Together with President Bush and my colleagues in the Senate, we will continue to work towards fulfilling the Republican agenda for America. 
   "We will do all we can to continue to keep America safe from terrorism; provide affordable prescription drugs and quality healthcare for our senior citizens; fight for tort reform; build strong and healthy families; and provide equal opportunities for children to have access to a first class education. 
   "While I am disappointed that the Keystone State did not go to President Bush, the efforts by the volunteers throughout the state and all of those who worked to get out the vote certainly did not go unnoticed. Sometimes in winning the war, some battles are lost along the way. But, the energy and spirit of democracy is alive and well in the Republican Party in Pennsylvania. I am encouraged to see that Pennsylvanians, in record numbers, exercised their civic responsibility by casting their vote in this election. This is a great victory for freedom, for security and for a better future for America."
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 