SEN. SANTORUM RECEIVES AWARD FOR PRESERVING PENNSYLVANIA HIGHLANDS; VISITS SANOFI PASTEUR VACCINE MANUFACTURER
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today was in Kutztown, Berks County to receive the Highlands Coalition Award from the Highlands Coalition. Sen. Santorum was recognized for his work to protect the Pennsylvania Highlands, including his instrumental leadership on the Farmland Preservation Program and in securing passage of the Highlands Conservation Act.  
   "I want to thank the Highlands Coalition for this award. I was proud to support and pass the Highlands Conservation Act on behalf of Pennsylvania," said Senator Santorum. "This bipartisan legislation authorizes $110 million over ten years to preserve regions like the Pennsylvania Highlands; it will help to protect the pristine environment and keep the water supply safe." 
   In 2004 Congress passed and the President signed the Highlands Conservation Act to preserve 3.2 million acres throughout Pennsylvania, New Jersey, New York and Connecticut. Senator Santorum looks forward to continuing to advocate in the United States Senate on behalf of protecting the Pennsylvania Highlands. 
   "The level of effective, bipartisan advocacy by the congressional delegations was very impressive. The Highlands Coalition is honoring Senator Santorum because of both his strong support for this vital land conservation initiative and his willingness to use his leadership position in the Senate to facilitate its approval there. We look forward to working with Senator Santorum on effective implementation of the Highlands Conservation Act," said Jim Tripp Chair of the four state Highlands Coalition and General Counsel of Environmental Defense. 
   Later, Senator Santorum was in Swiftwater, Monroe County to meet with executives from Sanofi Pasteur to see construction of their expansion project as well as discuss vaccination research. 
   "I will continue to fight to keep Sanofi Pasteur in our state. Sanofi Pasteur is the only vaccine facility in the United States licensed to make the injectable influenza vaccine," said Senator Santorum. "This organization employs more than one thousand skilled jobs in Monroe County and after their expansion they will continue to bring more quality jobs to the area and spur the regional and state economy. I am pleased that I was able to secure $10 million in the Fiscal Year 2005 Supplemental Appropriations bill to help facilitate their current expansion project." 
   "Senator Santorum has been instrumental in the effort to assist our local municipalities improve the region's infrastructure. We're happy to report that the construction of our new influenza vaccine manufacturing plant is underway and in several years will be online to help meet the nation's growing demand for influenza vaccine," said Damian Braga, President of Sanofi Pasteur, United States.
   Contact: Robert Traynham, 202/224-0610.
 
 