SEN. SANTORUM VISITS WILSON BOROUGH; EXPRESSES SUPPORT FOR CDBG PROGRAM
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, held a press conference in Wilson Borough today to discuss the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program with community leaders and elected officials in the Lehigh Valley.  
   "CDBG has been extremely helpful in assisting Pennsylvania's local communities leverage millions of dollars of other funding for use in needed housing and community development," said Senator Santorum. "The President's budget recently proposed reducing and combining CDBG funding with seventeen other community improvement and housing programs into one program under the Commerce Department. I understand the President's desire to eliminate programs that are inefficient and lack accountability, but when it comes to programs like CDBG, which are vital to our state, we should work to strengthen accountability rather than eliminate the program." 
   Various community leaders attended the press conference to discuss how the CDBG program has positively impacted their community. Mayor David Perruso of Wilson Borough spoke regarding the CDBG's impact on Wilson. 
   "We are very pleased that Senator Santorum is in favor of keeping the funding for CDBG," said Mayor Perruso. "As a small community, Wilson Borough depends on the CDBG program to provide funding allowing the purchase of things such as fire trucks, and for the upkeep of playgrounds. We also rely on the funding to remain prepared for emergencies." 
   Senator Santorum has been a longtime supporter of the CDBG program, which provides flexible federal funding to local community recipients who select the most appropriate programs to fight poverty or spur community and economic development in their counties, municipalities or cities. Senator Santorum recently voted in support of the Coleman amendment (S.Amdt. 230) to the Congressional Budget Resolution (S.Con.Res. 18) that would fully fund the CDBG program. Senator Santorum also signed a letter along with 54 of his colleagues asking the Senate Budget Committee to support a budget allocation of $4.732 billion for CDBG as a block grant program at the Department of Housing and Urban Development, the Section 108 economic development loan guarantee program, and the Brownfields Economic Development Initiative.
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610. 
 
 