SEN. SANTORUM SCORES LEGISLATIVE VICTORIES FOR PENNSYLVANIANS IN PENSION PROTECTION ACT
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today praised Senate passage of the Pension Protection Act.  
   "The Senate has taken a huge step in the right direction to improve our country's pension system," said Senator Santorum. "Americans work hard and should be able to enjoy the comfort of retirement with peace of mind. This comprehensive bill covers a number of important issue areas that I have been working on for years." 
   Key provisions of Senator Santorum's previously introduced legislation, S. 1825, the Multiemployer Plan Funding and Deduction Reform Act of 2005, were incorporated into the Pension Protection Act, providing an early warning system for multi-employer plans that may be experiencing various degrees of financial difficulty. Too often under current law, the economic condition of some multi-employer pension plans is unknown until they are facing extreme financial problems. Consequently, the remedies to address these problems are often too late to have an impact. This legislation will help identify underfunded multi-employer pension plans and financially strengthen all plans so that pension promises are kept. 
   Additionally, the Pension Protection Act protects public safety employees who retire early from facing unfair penalties on early withdrawals of their pensions. Senator Santorum successfully secured a provision that waives the 10 percent early withdrawal penalty tax for many of these retirees. 
   Senator Santorum supported a provision to allow public safety officers early pension withdrawal for health and long-term care insurance, whereby public safety officers who retire or become disabled may make tax-free distributions of up to $3,000 annually from their governmental pension plans if the distribution is used to purchase health or long-term care insurance. 
   Senator Santorum was also successful in advocating to include a provision in the Pension Protection Act that will strengthen health benefits for retired mine workers. 
   Furthermore, the Pension Protection Act creates life care annuities, a key provision from Senator Santorum's Aging with Respect and Dignity Act, S. 2281. This provision combines features of annuities and long-term care insurance. Most Americans are not planning for, and are not prepared for the financial impact of long-term care for themselves and their loved-ones. Long-term care insurance and annuities are both underutilized tools to plan for retirement. Combining the products makes them more affordable than if each were purchased separately, and allows more individuals to plan for and save for their retirement. 
   The Pension Protection Act also includes additional incentives and tools to plan and save for retirement, including to Senator Santorum's 401(k) Enhancement Act: Encouraging Retirement Savings (S. 1819), to encourage employers to offer automatic enrollment into employer sponsored defined contribution plans to encourage employee participation. The bill also includes another priority of Senator Santorum's - split tax-refunds and direct deposit of tax refunds to IRAs, a policy he has advocated for as Co-Founder and Co-Chair of the Congressional Savings and Ownership Caucus.
 
 