SEN. SANTORUM DELIVERS FEDERAL FUNDING TO VALLEY FORGE, NORRISTOWN, ROUTE 422 RIVER CROSSING HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today delivered significant federal funding for three projects in Montgomery County. Sen. Santorum was joined at Valley Forge National Historic Park by Pennsylvania State Sen. John Rafferty (R-44); Jim Matthews and Tom Ellis, Montgomery County Commissioners; Mary Bomar, National Park Service Regional Director; and Mike Caldwell, Valley Forge National Park Superintendent and other local officials.  
   Senator Santorum today delivered $2.326 million secured through the FY 2006 Interior Appropriations bill to the Valley Forge National Historic Park, specifically for the renovation of George Washington's Headquarters. Senator Santorum has been engaged in preservation efforts at Valley Forge for several years. This project includes transforming the Valley Forge Train Station into the visitor entry portal to George Washington's Headquarters complex, removing excess parking from the historic area, and making ADA modifications to the complex. 
   "I am pleased to deliver this funding to Montgomery County today for projects and construction that enhances accessibility in and around the Valley Forge National Historic Park, one of our most treasured historical landmarks," said Senator Santorum. "The projects that are benefiting from this funding will ensure that Pennsylvania remains a great place to visit and do business." 
   Senator Santorum also delivered $20 million he secured through the FY 2006 Transportation Reauthorization bill for the Route 422 River Crossing Improvement Project. 
   "This funding will improve safety as well as alleviate congestion at the Schuylkill River crossing of 422, while diverting commuter traffic on State Route 23 away from Valley Forge National Historical Park to ensure that visitors will be able to enjoy their visit to its fullest potential," said Senator Santorum. 
   "The Washington's Headquarters area, in the historic Village of Valley Forge, is the gem of Valley Forge National Historical Park. We deeply appreciate Senator Santorum's supporting our efforts to preserve the area and make its important stories come alive for visitors to the park," said Mary Bomar, Regional Director of the National Park Service. "These funds are a beginning to rehabilitating the historic building around the Headquarters, providing exhibits and programs on General Washington's remarkable leadership, and providing accessible facilities for all visitors." 
   Senator Santorum also delivered funding for the Norristown Parking Garage project. The federal funding secured through the FY 2006 Transportation Reauthorization Bill was in the amount of $2 million. Senator Santorum has been working with local officials in Montgomery County to revitalize downtown Norristown. 
   "The funding for the Norristown Parking Garage will provide for the construction of a 500 space mixed-use parking garage with ground-level retail space. This project will help alleviate the parking shortage in downtown Norristown and aid the community in their efforts to increase economic development and job growth," said Senator Santorum.
   Contact: Robert Traynham, 202/224-0610.
 
 