SEN. SANTORUM CELEBRATES PASSAGE OF HIS LEGISLATION TO SAVE JOBS, PROMOTE ECONOMIC GROWTH IN PENNSYLVANIA
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today praised passage of the Pension Protection Act which includes legislation to help domestic companies that manufacture high-end, advanced televisions by suspending tariffs on the importation of certain parts used to build these TV sets. The legislation passed by Congress had been introduced by Sen. Santorum in both the 108th Congress and 109th Congress.  
   "Temporarily relieving tariffs on parts used to manufacture television sets will help U.S. companies, like the Sony Technology Center in Westmoreland County, cut costs and produce high-end televisions to compete in the global manufacturing market. In doing so, these U.S. companies should be able to maintain jobs and promote economic growth in Pennsylvania and across the country," said Senator Santorum. 
   "The provision contained in this legislation will save 2,800 direct jobs, and will enable the company to hire hundreds of additional workers. The provision will also benefit the economy of Western Pennsylvania as many indirect jobs - perhaps thousands - will be maintained through the manufacture of these televisions. This is an example of Congress stepping in to make sure that good, high-paying jobs are not outsourced to Mexico," stated Senator Santorum. 
   "I personally want to thank Chairmen Chuck Grassley and Mike Enzi for their help and assistance in seeing this provision attached to this legislation. They agreed with my request to include the text of S. 788 and agreed to extend the duty suspension date until the end of December 2009. In addition, I want to thank Representatives Melissa Hart and Phil English for their help on advancing this legislation in the House of Representatives. Finally, I want to extend my sincere thanks to Chairman Bill Thomas for his help and assistance in seeing this provision included in this important bill," said Senator Santorum.
 
 