SEN. SANTORUM COSPONSORS U.N. OIL-FOR-FOOD ACCOUNTABILITY ACT IN SENATE
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today announced that he is an original cosponsor of the United Nations Oil-for-Food Accountability Act introduced by Sen. John Ensign (R-NV).  
   "The United Nations Oil-for-Food Accountability Act withholds United States' contributions to the United Nations until there is certification that the United Nations is cooperating in the investigation of the Oil-for-Food (OFF) program," said Senator Santorum. 
   The Government Accountability Office (GAO) estimates that, from 1997 through 2002, the former Iraqi regime acquired $10.1 billion in illegal revenues. Of the $10.1 billion, $5.7 billion was acquired through oil smuggled out of Iraq and $4.4 billion derived from surcharges against oil sales and illicit commissions from commodity suppliers. 
   An independent commission established by the UN posted the audits by the Office of International Oversight Services on its website. Internal auditors found that United Nations' officials repeatedly overpaid contractors and inadequately monitored the program. 
   "We are talking about billions of dollars that can not be accounted for - billions of dollars that should have been going to provide food for people that were under a tyrannical regime, not to line the pockets of already wealthy contractors," said Senator Santorum. 
   The United Nations Oil-for-Food Accountability Act authorizes the United States to withhold ten percent of its fiscal year 2006 assessed United Nations regular budget contribution and twenty percent of its fiscal year 2007 contribution. The withholding of United States funds to the UN will be lifted if the GAO is granted access to all Oil-for-Food documents; if the UN Secretary General confirms the UN will not assert inviolability of United Nations records; if the UN authorizes FBI and other law enforcement agencies access to documents; if the UN waives immunity of UN officials for crimes committed in the United States; and if UN officials repay funds to the Iraqi government. 
   Senator Santorum was also a co-sponsor of the original legislation introduced by Senator John Ensign (R-NV) in the 108th Congress as S. 2389, the United Nations Oil-for-Food Accountability Act of 2004.
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 