SEN. SANTORUM COMMENTS ON BLACK HISTORY MONTH
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, issued the following statement acknowledging February as Black History Month:  
   "As we celebrate the contributions and achievements of the African American community we are compelled to look at out history as a nation and look to where we have come as individuals and where we are going together as a nation. African Americans led the fight in this nation to bring the civil rights movement to the forefront of the political and social agendas - a fight that one-day will hopefully end. 
   "Although Black History Month is celebrated one month out of the year, we never forget what the month long celebration represents throughout the entire year. It is a reminder of people who were neglected, abused, and oppressed coming together as one community to show the world that all men are truly created equal and freedom is a not a commodity that can be bought or sold. 
   "Celebrating Black History Month is also a celebration of the history of a people who believe in community, faith, and family. The civil rights movement rescued African Americans from a form of bondage and at the same time transformed the rest of America. I believe that this was largely due to African Americans faith and devotion to family. As we continue to fight for equality in our society, we must not forget the importance of family in affecting change in relationships, communities, and our nation. 
   "America's communities are also strengthened by our willingness to appreciate contributions from all cultures. During this month long celebration of African American history, students, children, and families, learn of the significant contributions that African Americans have made to our nation's continued artistic, social, economic, and political progress. 
   "All Americans will soon be able to gain an even deeper understanding of the traditions and customs of previous generations of African Americans at the National Museum of African American history in Washington, DC. As an original cosponsor of the National Museum of African American History and Culture bill, which established the creation of the Museum, I believe that a greater knowledge of the African American story will help lead us to a greater understanding of ourselves as a nation."
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 