'BIASED COURT RULING WILL NOT STOP PARTIAL BIRTH ABORTION BAN'
  On November 5, 2003, I was honored to share the stage with President Bush as he signed into law vital legislation that I authored: the Partial Birth Abortion Ban Act of 2003. My legislation, which was cosponsored by 45 of my Senate colleagues, prohibits one specific and unnecessary abortion procedure from being performed in the United States of America. This gruesome procedure, known as partial birth abortion, is performed over a three-day period in the second or third trimester of pregnancy. In this particular abortion technique, the physician delivers all but the baby's head through the birth canal, stabs the baby in the base of the skull with curved scissors, and then uses a suction catheter to remove the child's brain. The enactment of the Partial Birth Abortion Ban Act is evidence that the compassion of a just society does indeed extend to those among us who are the most innocent and most helpless.  
   The legislation is the latest in a series of bills that have sought to ban partial birth abortion, two of which were vetoed by former President Clinton. The Partial Birth Abortion Ban Act responds to the directives of the Supreme Court in Stenberg v. Carhart, a case which overturned a Nebraska state law banning partial birth abortion. That case struck down the Nebraska ban on the grounds that: 1.) its definition of partial birth abortion was vague and could be interpreted to include more than one procedure, and 2.) the bill did not provide an exception to preserve the health of the mother. The 2003 law was carefully crafted so that it strictly defines partial birth abortion to address concerns of vagueness. The legislation also provides a series of detailed findings derived from years of congressional hearings and expert testimony from doctors demonstrating that this procedure is never medically necessary to preserve the health of the mother. 
   On Tuesday, June 1, 2004, U.S. District Court Judge Phyllis Hamilton of San Francisco ruled that the Partial Birth Abortion Ban Act of 2003 was unconstitutional. This ruling is, frankly, not surprising. Judge Hamilton made her bias in this case clear from the beginning. Rather than fulfilling her proper role as an impartial arbiter of the matter before her court, she instead chose to disallow nearly the entire case of the Justice Department which was defending the partial birth abortion ban, and let opponents of the ban have free reign with their case. 
   For instance, Judge Hamilton refused to let the Justice Department subpoena patients' medical records-with all personal identifying information carefully removed-to prove the crux of its case that partial birth abortion is never medically necessary. She criticized the credibility of one of the government experts, yet found witnesses for the opponents of the ban highly credible, despite the fact that many were abortion providers and had a clear personal interest in seeing the ban fail. 
   Even more disturbing was Judge Hamilton's assertion that evidence of fetal pain was not relevant to the trial. Judge Hamilton was apparently not satisfied with the testimony of expert witness Dr. Kanwaljeet Anand that the fetus experiences pain in the procedure, though the scientific evidence indicates it very strongly. According to the Judge's ruling, since the fetus is "unable to communicate," it cannot be "conclusively" determined that he or she is experiencing pain. 
   The opponents of the new law, in this case Planned Parenthood of America, had the opportunity to choose the venue in which to litigate their case. Judge Hamilton did not disappoint them in this respect. Still, the San Francisco case is only one of three challenges that have been made against the Partial Birth Abortion Act of 2003. The other two, in New York and Nebraska, are still underway, underlying the hasty manner in which the California case was resolved. In the New York case, Judge Richard Casey has been much more impartial, allowing both sides to present their case. And the federal judge hearing the Nebraska case, Judge Richard Kopf, has accepted evidence from both sides as well. This matter is likely to end up before the Supreme Court. It is very important that the Justices of the Supreme Court have a solid record of evidence to consider. 
   Judge Hamilton's ruling in the California case will not stop our push to prohibit abortion providers from conducting this abhorrent procedure. I have personally been involved in this fight on the Senate floor for more than eight years, and have remained resolute through the many setbacks the movement has faced since that time. The Justice Department is confident that their case will prevail in front of the United States Supreme Court, forever banning partial birth abortion in this country. I am hopeful that, unlike Judge Hamilton's ruling, the judgment issued that day will respect the will of the great majority of the American people, and will truly affirm the moral ties that bind together all members of a just and compassionate society.
 
 