SEN. SANTORUM PRESENTED ?FRIEND OF THE FARM BUREAU' AWARD
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, and member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture was recently presented with the 'Friend of the Farm Bureau' Award from the Pennsylvania Farm Bureau for his leadership in and support of Pennsylvania agriculture. Ed McCready, a Lawrence County dairy farmer, presented Sen. Santorum with the award on behalf of the Pennsylvania Farm Bureau.  
   "I am honored to receive this award from the Pennsylvania Farm Bureau," Senator Santorum said. "As a member of the Agriculture Committee and Chairman of the Subcommittee on Research, Nutrition, and General Legislation, Pennsylvania agriculture is one of my top priorities." 
   "Senator Santorum has been a leader in Congressional efforts to revive America's communities and empower citizens to enjoy better lives," McCready said. "On behalf of more than 34,000 farm and rural families across Pennsylvania, I would like to thank Senator Santorum for his support of agriculture and our hard-working families." 
   "Pennsylvania agriculture is involved in a regional struggle against others who would prefer to promote status quo commodity programs while neglecting programs that are critical to Pennsylvania's diverse agriculture industry," Santorum said. "There are efforts underway to shift the President's agriculture budget cuts away from the large commodity programs to programs that are critical to Pennsylvania agriculture. As the Senate moves forward with the budget process I will reject these efforts, focusing instead on policies that are regionally balanced and fair to PA farmers." 
   The Friend of the Farm Bureau award is given to members of Congress nominated by their respective state Farm Bureau and approved by the American Farm Bureau Federation Board of Directors. The award recognizes members of Congress who support the policies that help farmers obtain profitability with less regulatory interference, and increase demand for U.S. farm products through new uses and enhanced trade opportunities.
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 