UGLYRIPE TOMATO RECEIVES SUPPORT FROM SENS. SANTORUM, SPECTER, REP. SHERWOOD
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference and member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, Sen. Arlen Specter (R-PA), and Rep. Don Sherwood (R-PA) announced today legislation to promote innovation within the produce industry by providing an exemption to the Florida Tomato Marketing Order for participants in the Identity Preservation Program. The Florida Tomato Committee (FTC) is currently blocking the sale of UglyRipe? tomatoes throughout the United States.  
   "I have worked with the Florida Tomato Committee for the past two years, encouraging the committee to allow exemptions for innovative products, such as the UglyRipe. Given the steadfast resistance on the part of the Florida Tomato Committee, this legislation is necessary," said Senator Santorum. "I remain committed to promoting innovation within the agriculture industry." 
   "Once the FTC made its decision not to allow an additional exemption for the UglyRipe, I was surprised to see that Cherry tomatoes, Roma tomatoes, and Grape tomatoes did continue to receive their exemptions," Senator Specter said. "I urge my colleagues to cosponsor and support this legislation, which would allow the growers of UglyRipe an opportunity to market their product without conforming to an unreasonable standard." 
   The UglyRipe is an heirloom tomato, named for its wrinkled, odd shape but rich taste. From 1999 through the close of the 2002-2003 growing season, the FTC issued a Certificate of Privilege to exempt the UglyRipe tomato from the shape requirements of the Florida Tomato Marketing Order-an exemption currently granted to other specialty tomato varieties such as Roma, cherry, and greenhouse-allowing it to be shipped interstate during the season. Now, for the second straight season, the FTC has denied a Certificate of Privilege, halting interstate shipment. 
   "This is tomato discrimination based solely on looks," said Congressman Sherwood. "We can't deny that UglyRipes are ugly - but consumers should not be denied the opportunity to purchase a good tomato just because of its appearance. This bill is good for consumers and great for salads." 
   The UglyRipe is grown by a Philadelphia-based company, PrococciBrothers/Gargiulo, which employs 700. Following the FTC refusal of the Certificate of Privilege, the company was unable to sell the product outside of Florida and was forced to dump most of the 700 acres of the tomatoes.
   Contact: Christine Shott (Sen. Santorum), 202-224-0610; Scott Hoeflich (Sen. Specter), 202-224-9020; Jake O'Donnell (Rep. Sherwood), 202-225-3731.
 
 