SEN. SANTORUM COMMENTS ON SIGNING OF TAX RELIEF BILL BY BUSH
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today issued the following statement after President Bush signed into law the Working Families Tax Relief Act of 2004 passed by Congress last month: "I applaud President Bush for signing this much-needed tax relief bill into law today. This bill will stimulate the economy and put money back into the hands of those who deserve it. By extending tax relief enacted in 2001 and 2003 for another five years, hard working middle class Pennsylvania families will now have more control over their money instead of facing automatic tax hikes on New Years Day.  
   "As the father of six children, I know that raising a family can be a financial struggle. I am pleased that the $1,000 child tax credit will be extended for another five years so that mothers and fathers can spend that money closer to home. This could mean buying a better health insurance program, getting better education for their children, or allowing them to spend more time with their sons and daughters instead of having to work two jobs or an extra shift. 
   "Our tax system should not penalize married couples; instead the federal government should strive to develop ways to reward individuals entering into the institution of marriage. I am encouraged that the marriage penalty relief will be extended so that couples will not be unfairly taxed just because they are married. 
   "Because Republicans in Congress have followed President Bush's leadership, over 94 million Americans will experience a decrease in their tax burden in 2005. 
   "The tax relief bill signed today plays a key role in keeping the unemployment rate low, continuing to drive job creation, and fostering growth in our economy. As a result of President Bush's commitment to reforming and simplifying our tax code, millions of hard working families will enjoy more opportunity and more personal ownership."
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610. 
 
 