SEN. SANTORUM, REP. HART MEET WITH LOCAL BIOTECH LEADERS, DISCUSS FUTURE OF BIOTECH INDUSTRY IN PITTSBURGH
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, and Rep. Melissa Hart (R-PA-04) today held a roundtable with local leaders from the biotech industry.  
   Senator Santorum and Representative Hart discussed their federal legislation that they introduced in the U.S. Senate (S. 1893) and the U.S. House (H.R. 4082), which would update the U.S. tax code to encourage further investment and innovation in the biotechnology industry. 
   "Biotechnology is a cutting-edge industry which promises to create quality, high-paying jobs in Pennsylvania and across the country. I am glad Representative Hart and I had this opportunity to discuss our legislation and ways we can keep biotech jobs and businesses in southwestern Pennsylvania," said Senator Santorum. 
   Many biotech firms must raise large sums of money for research and development, and particularly as they go into clinical trials. Currently, limitations imposed in the tax code prevent many biotech startups from taking advantage of tax incentives when they have long periods of raising funds. If passed, the Biotechnology Future Investment Act (BIO FIX) of 2005 would amend Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code to ensure that biotech companies are able to take advantage of tax incentives to encourage research and development. 
   "Biotech companies incur unique startup costs and a lengthy process to get products in the marketplace. By updating this provision in the tax code to meet the needs of the biotechnology sector, companies are encouraged to expand their research for treatments for devastating diseases like cancer, Alzheimer's, AIDS and Parkinson's," said Senator Santorum. 
   "There can be no disputing that biotechnology firms have been a catalyst for innovation and have developed many promising treatments and cures. Start-up biotechnology firms, however, are currently hampered by complicated and costly tax provisions that hinder their ability to invest in research and development. The incentives in our bill encourage research and development and allow biotechnology firms to concentrate on what they do best," said Representative Hart. 
   To fund the lengthy product development stage, biotech companies frequently undergo multiple equity financings that, under the tax code, can trigger a technical change of ownership. Under Section 382, once a technical change in ownership has occurred, the net operating losses (NOLs) accumulated by a biotech company do not transfer to the purchaser. As a result, a biotech company's accumulated NOLs may be severely restricted in many cases, which disadvantages biotech companies because NOLs can be used as a significant tax deduction once a company becomes profitable. 
   If a company's accumulated NOLs have no value, it can discourage investment, which is particularly harmful to biotech companies as they navigate the lengthy and costly product development pipeline. More than 1,000 biotechnology companies, academic institutions, state biotechnology centers and related organizations support this legislation. They are involved in the research and development of health-care, agricultural, industrial and environmental biotechnology. 
   "The BIOFIX Act of 2005 attempts to foster innovation, spur research and development and create cutting-edge high technology jobs by removing an unnecessary barrier in our federal tax code currently hampering the development of emerging biotechnology companies," said Steven G. Zylstra, president and CEO of the Pittsburgh Technology Council. "We expect this legislation to encourage new investment and to discourage barriers to productivity and entrepreneurship."
   Contact: Robert Traynham, 202/224-0610.
 
 