SEN. SANTORUM ANNOUNCES ENERGY ASSISTANCE FUNDING TO HELP LOW-INCOME FAMILIES
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today announced $7,652,908 in emergency contingency funds from the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) that will help Pennsylvania families in need pay their heating and energy bills this winter. These funds are administered by the Administration for Children and Families through the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP).  
   "I am pleased that HHS has approved an additional $7 million in Pennsylvania for LIHEAP, which is an important program that helps many elderly and low-income Pennsylvanians who are facing record heating costs already this winter season," said Senator Santorum. "Pennsylvania routinely faces harsh winters and has one of the oldest populations in the country." 
   Each year, almost 5 million low-income households across the country receive LIHEAP assistance. LIHEAP helps eligible families pay for home heating and insulation in winter and cooling their homes in the warmer months. 
   Since being elected to Congress in 1990, Senator Santorum has been a consistent supporter of LIHEAP. His support for this program has come in several forms. Senator Santorum has written no less than nine letters to his colleagues on the House and Senate Appropriations Committees urging sufficient LIHEAP funding. Senator Santorum has also written six letters to both President Bush and Clinton requesting that they prioritize LIHEAP in the annual budget process and release emergency LIHEAP funding when these critical funds were desperately needed. Most recently, Senator Santorum joined Senators John Kerry of Massachusetts and Jack Reed of Rhode Island in supporting three separate amendments to various appropriations bills that would have provided additional LIHEAP funding this coming year. 
   Senator Santorum will chair a field hearing for the Special Committee on Aging tomorrow in West Mifflin, Pennsylvania to examine the effect of home heating prices on the elderly and the ways in which the government and private sector are addressing this problem. The witnesses will also discuss the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) and its effectiveness in helping lower-income Pennsylvanians, particularly the elderly, manage the burdensome cost of heating their homes. 
   Individuals interested in applying for LIHEAP assistance should contact their local/state LIHEAP agency. For more information, go to http://www.acf.hhs.gov/programs/liheap/ or http://www.acf.hhs.gov/programs/liheap/brochure.html. 
   To see the total amount given to each state from the emergency contingency fund, view: http://www.acf.hhs.gov/news/press/2005/liheap_funding_0106.htm.
 
 