SEN. SANTORUM, MAYOR LEIGHTON HOLD PRESS CONFERENCE TO UNVEIL PHASE 2 OF DOWNTOWN WILKES-BARRE STREETSCAPE PROJECT
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today held a press conference at King's College with Wilkes-Barre Mayor Tom Leighton to unveil the preliminary design of Phase 2 of the downtown Wilkes-Barre streetscape project.  
   "I am pleased to have been able to secure significant funding for the revitalization of downtown Wilkes-Barre. Phase 2 of the streetscape project will make downtown Wilkes-Barre a safer place to live, work and go to school," said Senator Santorum. "I appreciate the leadership of Mayor Leighton, who has a great vision for the city, and I look forward to working with him on future projects in Wilkes-Barre." 
   "I would like to thank Senator Santorum for his continued support in Wilkes-Barre's future," said Mayor Leighton. "The lighting/streetscape project is extremely important to downtown Wilkes-Barre's revitalization." 
   Senator Santorum secured $1 million for the City of Wilkes-Barre for Phase 2 to help replace outdated and inadequate lighting on the streets of downtown Wilkes-Barre, which impacts North Main Street from Public Square to North Street. 
   The $1 million was included in the Safe, Accountable, Flexible and Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (SAFETEA-LU). 
   This funding will also aid in the revitalization of the Downtown, enhance pedestrian and vehicular safety as well as provide additional safety on the campus of King's College. Senator Santorum was also able to secure $6 million for the proposed Intermodal Transportation Center, which will be built downtown. 
   "Northeastern Pennsylvania has so much to offer the rest of the commonwealth; there are several institutions of higher learning, quality medical facilities and a rich cultural history," Senator Santorum said. 
   Joining Senator Santorum and Mayor Leighton were President of King's College, Father O'Hara; representatives from the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation; and other community leaders.
   Contact: Robert Traynham, 202/224-0610.
 
 