SEN. SANTORUM VISITS ELK, CAMERON, FOREST COUNTIES
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), today was at Morgan Advanced Materials and Technology (AM&T) in St. Marys to tour their facility and meet with employees. Morgan AM&T has grown over the past two years with 70 new employees in both the plant and in sales and administration, now employing a total of 280 people in St. Marys. Morgan AM&T is a leader in manufacturing engineering components for the aerospace, industrial and defense sectors. 
   "We are delighted to have Senator Santorum come to our facility. Our employees have worked hard to make our business what it is today and to have the Senator come to St. Marys and Morgan AM&T is quite an honor," said Pat Struble, Director of Operations at Morgan AM&T.  
   Senator Santorum offered a federal legislative update and took questions from employees. Following his tour of Morgan AM&T, Senator Santorum traveled to the Cameron County Health Care Center in Emporium where he hosted a town hall meeting. 
   "Every year I travel to each of our sixty-seven counties, and I always look forward to returning to the northern tier region. In St. Marys at Morgan Advanced Materials and Technology they are expanding their business and creating new, local jobs," said Senator Santorum. "I am happy to be here in Emporium to hear your concerns about issues that are affecting this region, like the increased production of and use of meth products and issues affecting our country, like illegal immigration." 
   Senator Santorum spoke about the recent debate in the United State Senate regarding the issue of illegal immigration. This past May the U.S. Senate voted on a comprehensive immigration reform bill, which Senator Santorum did not support for a number of reasons. The bill contained a broad amnesty program for most illegal immigrants, strains the Social Security system, further stresses our already over-burdened health care network and will increase financial burdens on tax-paying American citizens and those who have chosen to come to our country legally. 
   "I believe in the dreams, hopes and desires of immigrants because they are an integral part of our national identity, our history, and our future. Throughout this ongoing debate on the future of our immigration policy, I firmly believe that we must maintain the rule of law. I will continue to support legislation that secures our borders, reforms our legal immigration system, strengthens our employer verification program and acknowledges the important contributions legal immigrants make to our country without rewarding illegal behavior," said Senator Santorum. 
   On June 23, 2006, Senator Santorum introduced the Border Security First Act which would provide increased assets for controlling our borders including more inspectors, marshals, and border patrol agents on both the northern and southern borders. The bill calls for increased surveillance, new checkpoints and ports of entry, and increased fencing and vehicle barriers - all in an effort to control the U.S. borders. 
   The Border Security First Act also calls for a comprehensive national strategy for border security, information exchange between agencies, increasing the capacity to train border patrol agents and combating human smuggling. The bill would enhance initiatives on biometric data, secure communications for border patrol agents, and provide Customs and Border Protection officers with additional training. 
   Additionally, the Border Security First Act would temporarily deploy the National Guard to support the border patrol in securing our southern land border. The bill would also increase punishment for the construction of border tunnels or passages and provide relief for cities, counties and states dealing with increased costs because of illegal immigration. 
   Senator Santorum also discussed the Combat Meth Epidemic Act, which seeks to restrict the sales of medicines containing ingredients used to manufacture methamphetamine. Medicines containing pseudoephedrine, ephedrine and phenylpropanolamine (PPA) will be placed behind the counter. Purchasers will be limited to acquiring only enough medication containing meth ingredients as is necessary for legitimate medical use. 
   "As a member of the bipartisan, Congressional Anti-Meth Caucus, I am concerned about the increase in methamphetamine production and use in our state. At a time when reports of methamphetamine laboratory incidents are decreasing nationally, the number of these incidents in Pennsylvania is going up. By making precursor materials harder to obtain and providing new tools for law enforcement, this bill will help communities to effectively address this growing problem," said Senator Santorum. 
   Most notably, this bill authorizes $99 million for fiscal years 2006 to 2010 for grants to State and local law enforcement agencies to assist in the investigation of meth traffickers and to reimburse the Drug Enforcement Agency for assistance in cleaning up meth laboratories. 
   Senator Santorum who is a member of the Senate Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry Committee, was also in Forest County to meet with Allegheny National Forest Supervisor, Kathleen Morse, to discuss various plans for future Allegheny National Forest planning and management. 
   "Senator Santorum has been an avid supporter of the Allegheny National Forest, and it was a true pleasure to host him today at the Marienville Ranger District. I am very impressed with the close working relationship we on the Forest enjoy with the Senator and his staff," said Kathleen Morse, Allegheny National Forest Supervisor.
 
 