SEN. SANTORUM TOURS ENDLESS MOUNTAINS REGION
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today toured the Endless Mountains region of northeastern Pennsylvania. Sen. Santorum was in Bradford County to discuss Community Development Block Grants, Wyoming County to tour Deer Park Lumber Company, and Sullivan County to tour the Red Rock Job Corps Center.  
   Senator Santorum was joined in Towanda by Bradford County Commissioners and local elected officials for a roundtable discussion to address the importance of the Community Development Black Grant (CDBG) program. Senator Santorum has been an advocate of continuing and protecting CDBG funding, which is crucial to the development and growth of both rural and urban Pennsylvania. 
   "CDBG funding has been extremely helpful in assisting Pennsylvania's communities leverage millions of dollars of funding for community development and economic renewal," said Senator Santorum. "The President's budget recently proposed reducing and combining CDBG funding with seventeen other community improvement and housing programs into one program under the Commerce Department. I understand the President's desire to eliminate programs that are inefficient and lack accountability, but when it comes to programs like CDBG, which are vital to our state, we should work to strengthen accountability rather than eliminate the entire program." 
   "The CDBG program is a vital tool in helping our rural communities meet their economic development, infrastructure, recreation and beautification needs, I am glad that Senator Santorum is fighting for our communities and to maintain funding for this important program. Changes to the current program could jeopardize many projects in Bradford County," said State Representative Tina Pickett (R-110th District). 
   "I am pleased that Senator Santorum is in Bradford County to discuss issues that are important to our rural communities, Senator Santorum is a great advocate for our county and the needs of rural Pennsylvania," said Bradford Commissioner Doug McLinko. 
   Senator Santorum has been a longtime supporter of the CDBG program, which provides flexible federal funding to local community recipients who select the most appropriate programs to fight poverty or spur community and economic development in their counties, municipalities or cities. Senator Santorum recently voted in support of the Coleman amendment (S.Amdt. 230) to the Congressional Budget Resolution (S.Con.Res. 18) that would fully fund the CDBG program. 
   Senator Santorum also signed a letter along with 54 of his colleagues asking the Senate Budget Committee to support a budget allocation of $4.732 billion for CDBG as a block grant program at the Department of Housing and Urban Development, the Section 108 economic development loan guarantee program, and the Brownfields Economic Development Initiative. 
   Following the CDBG roundtable, Senator Santorum toured the Deer Park Lumber Company in Tunkhannock, which employs 75 people. The Senator serves on the committee that has jurisdiction over forestry issues, the Senate Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry Committee. 
   Senator Santorum then traveled to Lopez to tour the Red Rock Job Corps Center and speak with employees and students at the job corps center about the benefits of providing at-risk youth with the education, training, and skills needed for gainful employment and a more stable life for their families. 
   "I am pleased that I could join the students, faculty and staff at Red Rock Job Corps Center as they celebrate the Job Corps' 40th Anniversary," said Senator Santorum. "Centers like this one at Red Rock offer young people an opportunity to complete and enhance their education experience in an environment that encourages leadership opportunities, service projects, and real-world experience that they might not otherwise have access to." 
   Senator Santorum has supported the Red Rock Jobs Corps Center by displaying artwork from students in his Washington DC, Scranton, and Philadelphia offices. During his time in the Senate, Senator Santorum has also sponsored a student art exhibit in the Rotunda of the Russell Senate Office Building. Red Rock Job Corps Center offers a high school diploma program and a GED program, in addition to vocational training programs. The center trains more than 450 students annually. 
   "We are honored that Senator Santorum is able to visit the Red Rock Job Corps Center and help us celebrate Job Corps' 40th Anniversary. We appreciate his on-going support of our students and our program," said Jim McGee, Red Rock Job Corps Center Director.
   Contact: Robert Traynham, 202/224-0610.
 
 