SEN. SANTORUM CONTINUES HIS SUPPORT OF AUTISM RESEARCH, PARTICIPATES IN 7TH ANNUAL PITTSBURGH WALK FOR AUTISM RESEARCH
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA) today participated in the 7th Annual Pittsburgh Walk for Autism Research. The Senator served as Honorary Chairman of the 7th Annual Pittsburgh Walk for Autism Research. The Senator delivered opening remarks prior to the walk, cut the ribbon marking the start of the walk, and joined members of his staff to participate in the walk for this worthy cause.  
   "I am very pleased to be a part of this year's Walk for Autism Research, being held in my hometown of Pittsburgh, and I am looking forward to raising money and awareness for this worthy cause. I am proud to not only sponsor the Combating Autism Act, a bill that is going to do so much for children with autism and their families, but to lead the charge in the United States Senate on combating this disease," said Senator Santorum. "My heart goes out to the parents and families of those struggling with autism. As the father of six, I know that there is nothing more important than the health of our children, and I can only imagine the difficulties and heartache facing these parents. It is past time for the federal government to develop a thoughtful approach that will get these children, and their families, the help they need and deserve." 
   After several meetings with parents of autistic children, Senator Santorum introduced S. 843, the Combating Autism Act, and continues to lead efforts to pass the legislation in the Senate. The Combating Autism Act of 2005 would dedicate significantly more resources to combat autism through research, screening, intervention, and education. 
   Ideally, every child would be screened for autism between the ages of 18-24 months. In the United States, 17% of children have a developmental or behavioral disability such as autism. However, less than 50% of these children are identified prior to entering kindergarten. This delayed diagnosis means years lost in a child's development. 
   Senator Santorum passionately believes that we need to do a better job screening America's kids and ensuring that once a diagnosis is made, the necessary interventions are available. Early intervention will help every child to live up to his or her full potential. Currently there just aren't enough trained healthcare and education professionals to help the nearly half-million American children with autism spectrum disorder. 
   Senator Santorum would also like to see more science invested in determining the potential causes or triggers of autism, taking a more intensive look at things like environmental causes, neuroscience, specific treatments, and the role of genetics. 
   "I will continue to work with my colleagues in the Senate and organizations concerned with autism research to see the Combating Autism Act through the legislative process," said Senator Santorum. "History shows that it is difficult to pass a disease-specific bill, like the Combating Autism Act; however, I am pleased with the progress we have made thus far and the cooperation of my colleagues on both sides of the aisle, and I am hopeful for further success moving forward." 
   "We are honored that Senator Santorum and his staff joined us today to show their support for this important event and to help us shine a spotlight on the need for increased funding for autism research," said Walk Chair Kelly Diulus. "The Walk for Autism Research is a remarkable day that brings together individuals with autism, their families and friends to increase awareness about autism and to express our hope for a future without this devastating disorder."
 
 