SEN. SANTORUM COMMENDS SENATE PASSAGE OF LEGISLATION TO KEEP STUDENTS SAFE
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, announced that S. 1086, the Sex Offender Registration and Notification Act, passed the Senate yesterday. A critical aspect of this legislation is a provision identical to the Schools Safely Acquiring Faculty Excellence (SAFE) Act, legislation that Sen. Santorum sponsored and strongly advocated for advancing. The Schools SAFE Act will allow states to choose to have FBI background checks conducted on individuals who would be working with children in public schools.  
   "I am pleased that my Senate colleagues have approved this important legislation, which will provide parents and teachers with the peace of mind that comes with knowing that individuals working with our children on a daily basis are fit to do so," said Senator Santorum. "As the father of six children, I share Pennsylvania parents' concerns about the security and safety of our nation's schools. It is of the utmost importance that schools have access to complete background information when considering entrusting students to their care. The Schools SAFE Act will help ensure that our nation's schools provide a safe education environment in which students can achieve their fullest potential." 
   In addition to sponsoring this legislation, Senator Santorum has strongly advocated for its swift passage, as this is the time of year in which schools are making hiring decisions for the upcoming school year. Upon introduction of this measure in October 2005, Senator Santorum sent a letter to Senator Arlen Specter (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, advocating for its inclusion in S. 1086, legislation that seeks to protect our nation's children from those who would harm them. Most recently, in March 2006, Senator Santorum wrote Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-TN) to urge him to advance the Schools SAFE Act. 
   In Pennsylvania, a federal background check is only required for school employees who have lived in Pennsylvania for less than two years, while teacher applicants that are long-time residents of the Commonwealth are not required to undergo any FBI background check at all. Although some states do participate in a program in which background information is voluntarily shared, efforts to conduct thorough background checks have often met troubling barriers that prevent schools from accessing complete information. 
   "I am hopeful that the House of Representatives will quickly act on this measure so that our schools can have the resources they need to ensure the safety of our students," said Senator Santorum.
 
 