SEN. SANTORUM MAKES CASE FOR MARRIAGE
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today said that the government should not remain neutral about marriage, but should preserve, protect and promote it as "a core social institution that serves the public good," while chairing a hearing of the Senate Finance Subcommittee on Social Security and Family Policy titled, "The Benefits of a Healthy Marriage."  
   "There are a number of important debates heating up about marriage, including whether we should redefine marriage," Sen. Santorum said. "Before we consider changing what marriage means, we should look at what marriage is, what its benefits are, and why it is worth defending." 
   The hearing examined ways that government should, and should not, promote marriage, emphasizing how promoting healthy marriage can help alleviate poverty. "Marriage is fundamentally different from any other relationship and the government should not shy away from promoting it," Santorum said. "At the same time, government should not implement policies that will trap anyone in an abusive relationship, or decrease support for single-parent families." 
   While the evidence about the social benefits of marriage is clear, Sen. Santorum said, the government still has much to learn about how best to promote it. "We need to take action based on what we know and continue to conduct research," Santorum said. "A critical first step is for Congress to finish its work on the welfare reauthorization bill, including more than $300 million in funding for the healthy marriage initiative tailored to help low-income couples." 
   Witnesses included: Julie Baumgardner, Executive Director, First Things First, Chattanooga, Tenn.; Joseph T. Jones, Founder, Center for Fathers, Families, and Workforce Development, Baltimore, Md.; Dr. Kathryn Edin, Associate Professor, Department of Sociology, Northwestern University, Evanston, Ill.; Dr. Ron Haskins, Senior Fellow of Economic Studies, The Brookings Institution, Washington, D.C.; Theodora Ooms, Senior Policy Analyst, The Center for Law and Social Policy, Washington, D.C.; Dr. Scott Stanley, Co-Director, Center for Marital and Family Studies and Adjunct Professor, Department of Psychology, University of Denver, Denver, Colo.
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-4474.
 
 