SEN. SANTORUM COMMENTS ON ALTERNATIVE PLURIPOTENT STEM CELL THERAPIES ENHANCEMENT ACT
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, made a statement regarding the Alternative Pluripotent Stem Cell Therapies Enhancement Act, which he and Sen. Arlen Specter (R-PA) introduced today. The Senators agreed to legislation that would further intensify research into non-controversial methods of deriving pluripotent stem cell lines to result in improved understanding of treatments for diseases and other adverse health conditions.  
   "I am very pleased to have reached this significant compromise with my colleague, Senator Specter on legislation that reflects a commitment to curing disease, promoting scientific progress, and respecting life. I am confident in this bill - it is pro-scientific progress, pro-stem cell research, and pro-cures for diseases, but does not compromise my commitment to protecting innocent embryonic life. 
   "Recognizing the ethical issues surrounding embryonic stem cell research and potential scientific advances that may alleviate these issues, this bill seeks to intensify research into ways to derive pluripotent stem cell lines from alternative sources, ones that do not require the creation of human embryos for research purposes or discarding, destroying, or knowingly harming a human embryo or fetus. 
   "While there are different and passionate opinions on stem cell research, Senator Specter and I have come to an agreement that we can intensify pluripotent stem cell research without creating or destroying human embryos for research purposes. We are hopeful that additional funding in this area will open the door to significant advances in the medical and scientific communities." 
   The Alternative Pluripotent Stem Cell Therapies Enhancement Act would amend the Public Health Service Act to require the National Institutes of Health (NIH) to conduct and support basic and applied research to develop techniques for the isolation, derivation, production, or testing of stem cells that have pluripotent or embryonic-like qualities. The bill authorizes necessary funding for this research for fiscal year 2007 through 2009. 
   The bill requires a yearly report to Congress on the activities being carried out and research being conducted during the fiscal year. Recognizing that supporters of the bill come from varying perspectives on the legitimacy of embryonic stem cell research, the bill contains a rule of construction saying that nothing in this bill shall be construed to affect any policy, guideline, or regulation regarding embryonic stem cell research, human cloning by somatic cell nuclear transfer, or any other research not specifically authorized. 
   The bill also directs the NIH to provide guidance on this research, including prioritizing research with the greatest potential for near-term clinical benefit; determining the extent to which specific techniques may require additional basic or animal research to ensure that any research involving human cells is consistent with the purpose of the bill; and taking into account the techniques outlined by the President's Council on Bioethics and any other techniques and research.
 
 