SEN. SANTORUM HONORED FOR HIS ONGOING COMMITMENT TO QUALITY KIDNEY CARE
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today received the National Renal Administrator Association (NRAA) Leadership Award at the 29th Annual Conference Committee in Philadelphia.  
   The NRAA is a nonprofit organization representing professional managers of dialysis facilitates and centers throughout the United States. NRAA members include renal administrators, nurses, and physicians for dialysis clinics, which provide life-sustaining dialysis care to the majority of Medicare End Stage Renal Disease (ESRD) patients. 
   Tony Messana, President of NRAA presented the Senator with the award for his leadership on behalf of dialysis patients and providers. Senator Santorum sponsored the Kidney Care Quality Improvement Act of 2005 (S.635), legislation that seeks to improve awareness and education for those most at risk for kidney disease, those suffering from chronic kidney disease, and those in complete kidney failure. It also seeks to improve overall patient care by establishing an annual update framework to ensure that providers keep pace with technological and medical advances. 
   "Senator Santorum has shown great leadership on behalf of the men, women, and children affected by chronic kidney disease and the providers that treat them," said Tony Messana, President of the NRAA. "The National Renal Administrators Association is privileged to acknowledge and honor his leadership and commitment to the betterment of patients and improving the quality of care that they receive." 
   "I am honored to receive this award from an organization that represents the skilled medical professionals who provide quality dialysis care in this country, care that literally saves hundreds of thousands of lives," said Senator Santorum. "The rise of kidney disease due to increases in incidents of high blood pressure and diabetes - just to name a few - are very serious issues that must be addressed. I will continue to fight for legislation that addresses these issues and ensures quality care for the thousands of Pennsylvanians fighting kidney disease and facing kidney failure." 
   According to the National Kidney Foundation, in the state of Pennsylvania, approximately 13,044 residents suffer from kidney failure and require dialysis three times a week to stay alive. Almost 70 percent of these patients suffer from diabetes and/or hypertension, leading causes of kidney failure in the United States.
 
 