SEN. SANTORUM NAMED FEDERAL LEGISLATOR OF YEAR
  U.S. Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, received the Federal Legislator of the Year Award from the Jump$tart Coalition for Personal Financial Literacy for his exemplary advocacy on behalf of youth financial literacy. 
   "I am honored to receive this award from Jumpstart," said Senator Santorum. "As the father of six children and a member of the Senate Banking Committee, I strongly believe in the importance of promoting financial literacy - especially among our nation's youth - which is why I have authored initiatives like KIDS Accounts and the Savings for Working Families Act to assist families as they plan their financial future."
   Senator Santorum has been an advocate for financial literacy throughout his tenure in the United States Senate. In the 108th Congress, Senator Santorum introduced the America Saving for Personal Investment, Retirement, and Education Act (The ASPIRE Act) to provide a KIDS Account for every child born after December 31, 2006. KIDS Accounts would promote financial literacy for children and their parents through incentives designed to encourage savings and expand asset-building opportunities.
   Last year, Senator Santorum introduced the Savings for Working Families Act of 2005, a bipartisan bill, with Senator Joe Lieberman (D-CT). This bill would expand Individual Development Accounts (IDAs) by creating 900,000 additional IDAs. IDAs are matched savings accounts that help working, low-income people build assets and move into the economic mainstream.
   In February 2005, Senator Santorum, along with Senator Kent Conrad (D-ND) and Representatives Jim Cooper (D-TN), Phil English (R-PA), Harold Ford, Jr. (D-TN), and Tom Petri (R-WI) launched the bipartisan Savings and Ownership Caucus. The Caucus is an active working group of members and staff with the goal of developing and advocating innovative federal policies aimed at boosting personal savings, individual ownership of wealth, and financial literacy.
   Additionally, Senator Santorum has cosponsored resolutions designating April 2003, 2004, and 2005 Financial Literacy Month to encourage public awareness about the need for increased financial literacy.
 
 