SEN. SANTORUM DISCUSSES MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG COVERAGE WITH CONSTITUENTS
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today held a Medicare prescription drug coverage informational seminar. The forum was held at The Residences at Chestnut Ridge in Chester and individuals affiliated with the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) were present to help answer questions and provide a better understanding of the new Medicare prescription drug coverage.  
   "Today's town hall meeting is a great opportunity to discuss with my constituents the new Medicare drug coverage program. In response to concerns I have heard from my constituents, I am working to provide helpful information about what the new Medicare drug coverage means for Pennsylvania's seniors, including what Medicare drug coverage means for Pennsylvanians enrolled in the state PACE program. Going forward, the concerns I have heard today will be essential as I continue to work to strengthen and improve the Medicare program for Pennsylvania's seniors," said Senator Santorum. 
   Senator Santorum is a member of the Senate Finance Committee and the Senate Special Committee on Aging, and has actively been monitoring the improvements being implemented to the Medicare program as a result of the Medicare Modernization Act (MMA). As a supporter of this legislation, Senator Santorum wants to ensure that any changes to Medicare will be a win for Pennsylvania's seniors. After hearing from constituents who expressed concern about how the Medicare drug coverage would work with the current PACE program in Pennsylvania, Senator Santorum contacted Governor Rendell to encourage PACE to reach an agreement with CMS that would best benefit Pennsylvanians, as provided by the MMA. 
   On November 30th CMS and PACE announced that an agreement had been reached that would truly benefit Pennsylvania's seniors as intended by the Medicare law. 
   "I sent a letter to Governor Rendell urging Pennsylvania officials to do whatever necessary to integrate PACE with the Medicare program, emphasizing that time is of the essence. I was pleased that the Governor worked with federal officials at CMS to lay the groundwork that will enable enrollment to proceed, providing for hundreds of millions of dollars for Pennsylvania that can be used to enhance the PACE program to the benefit of more than 300,000 Pennsylvanians," said Senator Santorum. "To ensure that the potential of this agreement is fulfilled, I strongly encourage Pennsylvania state legislatiors to pass the legislation outlined in the agreement as soon as possible, which will enable PACE to pay Medicare drug premiums, and save Pennsylvanians even more money." 
   Seniors considering enrolling in a Medicare drug plan have the opportunity to choose from several prescription drug plans in their area. Seniors that enroll in a new drug plan by December 31st will enjoy prescription drug coverage beginning January 1, 2006. Enrollment can be done over the phone, online or at community enrollment events that will take place in the weeks ahead. Every Pennsylvania senior should take the opportunity to consider their options and make an informed decision with regard to which plan will best meet their healthcare needs. 
   "One of my greatest responsibilities as a United States Senator is advocating on behalf of Pennsylvania's seniors to protect their health so they can age with the comfort and dignity they deserve. I was proud to support the Medicare Modernization Act and I am committed to ensuring that Pennsylvanians are provided with a smooth transition if they choose to enroll in a new prescription drug plan that will protect their health and save them money on prescription drugs," said Senator Santorum. 
   For questions about the coverage, call 1-800-MEDICARE (1-800-633-4227), or visit www.Medicare.gov. 
   Senator Santorum also attended the grand opening of the Temple University Hospital Ambulatory Care Center in Philadelphia. The Senator joined Chip Marshall, CEO; Dr. Gerar Criner, President of the Medical Staff; and Dan Polett, Vice Chairman of the Health System's Board of Directors to discuss the importance of accessible and quality health care in southeastern Pennsylvania. 
   "It is encouraging to see improvements in the medical field and among healthcare providers in Pennsylvania. It is important that Pennsylvanians have access to quality care and treatment," said Senator Santorum. "With new radiation oncology equipment, an expanded Gastroenterology Department, and additional clinical space, the Ambulatory Care Center will be one of the premier health facilities in southeastern Pennsylvania."
   Contact: Robert Traynham, 202/224-0610.
 
 