SEN. SANTORUM CHAIRS SENATE AGING COMMITTEE HEARING ON HOME HEATING COSTS
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), a member of the United States Senate Special Committee on Aging, today chaired a field hearing in West Mifflin to examine the effect of home heating prices on the elderly and the ways in which the government and private sector are addressing this problem. The witnesses discussed the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) and its effectiveness in helping lower-income Pennsylvanians, particularly the elderly, manage the burdensome cost of heating their homes. Additionally, the field hearing looked at other ways to reduce the high costs associated with home heating.  
   "LIHEAP is an important program that helps many elderly and low-income Pennsylvanians who are facing record heating costs already this winter season," said Senator Santorum. "Pennsylvania routinely faces harsh winters and has one of the oldest populations in the country. That is why I am pleased to chair today's field hearing and address this critical program that assists hundreds of thousands of Pennsylvanians, as well as explore other options for reducing home heating costs." 
   In light of recent rising energy costs, Senator Santorum has been working to find ways to alleviate the burdensome costs for many Pennsylvanians. 
   Since being elected to Congress in 1990, Senator Santorum has been a consistent supporter of LIHEAP, which that assists countless low-income and senior citizens meeting their home energy needs. Senator Santorum's support for LIHEAP has come in several forms. In 1991, he twice voted against the Labor-Health and Human Services-Education Appropriations bill primarily because it did not provide enough LIHEAP funding. Since this time, Senator Santorum has written no less than nine letters to his colleagues on the House and Senate Appropriations Committees urging sufficient LIHEAP funding. Senator Santorum has also written six letters to both President Bush and Clinton requesting that they prioritize LIHEAP in the annual budget process and release emergency LIHEAP funding when these funds were desperately needed. Senator Santorum supported three bipartisan amendments to various appropriations bills that would have provided additional LIHEAP funding this coming year.
 
 