SEN. SANTORUM ASSESSES DAMAGE TO SOUTH WILKES-BARRE AT SOLOMON CREEK IN ANTICIPATION OF SENATE DEBATE OVER WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT ACT
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA) today was joined by Wilkes-Barre Mayor Tom Leighton, other local elected officials, and residents of south Wilkes-Barre at the Barney Street Bridge to assess the affects of the ongoing Solomon Creek flooding. Sen. Santorum is particularly interested in evaluating the situation in south Wilkes-Barre and hearing from local residents before Senate debate over the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA - S. 728) commences. WRDA is a bill that authorizes critical flood control, shore protection, dam safety, storm damage reduction, and environmental restoration projects across the country.  
   "I am anxious to start the debate on WRDA. This bill is long over-due and in light of Hurricane Katrina and the June flooding that hit the northeast, now is the time for the Senate to take this up so we can move this legislation forward," said Senator Santorum. 
   In January 2006 Senator Santorum signed a letter with 79 other senators urging the Majority and Minority Leaders to bring the WRDA bill to the Senate floor for reauthorization. The Senator is hopeful that a debate on this bill will happen within the month. The House of Representatives has already passed a version and is waiting on Senate passage before the legislation can be considered by a House and Senate Conference to resolve differences. 
   "I would like to thank Senator Santorum for his quick response to my request for assistance. Last Wednesday, after the rain stopped, we toured the Solomon Creek area of south Wilkes-Barre and discussed how the federal government can be helpful. The residents and business owners of south Wilkes-Barre and Hanover Township are in fear of flooding every time we get heavy rains and we need to work together to solve this problem," said Mayor Leighton. 
   "I have been working since 2000 to assist the residents and businesses of south Wilkes-Barre and Hanover Township receive adequate flood protection, so they can have peace of mind that they will not be flooded every time we get heavy rains," said Senator Santorum. "Now I am working with Senator Specter and Congressman Kanjorski to get the Solomon Creek project added to the Wyoming Valley Levee Raising project and I will work with my colleagues in the Senate to ensure that language regarding that this project becomes a reality."
 
 