SEN. SANTORUM VISITS LETTERKENNY ARMY DEPOT, LEBANON COUNTY
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today was in Franklin County at Letterkenny Army Depot and in Lebanon County for an Affordable Housing Roundtable.  
   Senator Santorum met with members of the Franklin County Area Development Corporation, the Greater Chambersburg Chamber of Commerce, and Letterkenny Army Depot's Opportunity '05 Committee. 
   The Opportunity '05 Committee is a consortium of government and local businesses in the Chambersburg community who are working together to advance the mission and interests of Letterkenny Army Depot. 
   Should the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission agree to the recommendations of the Department of Defense, Letterkenny Army Depot is expected to expand its missions and gain additional personnel. Tomorrow the BRAC commission will hold a regional hearing in Washington, D.C., at which representatives from Pennsylvania will have the opportunity to defend Pennsylvania bases. Senators Santorum, Specter (R-PA) and Governor Ed Rendell, as well as other members of the Pennsylvania delegation will speak on behalf of Pennsylvania bases. 
   "I am pleased that the Department of Defense has recommended that Letterkenny Army Depot increase and continue their missions," said Senator Santorum. "I have been working hard with Senator Specter and Governor Rendell to defend our bases in Pennsylvania. Local officials and communities have been very supportive of their bases, like Letterkenny, and I am hopeful that the BRAC commission takes into consideration all of the information presented to them at tomorrow's hearing and we receive positive news as a result of our cooperative efforts." 
   Following his visit to Letterkenny Army Depot, Senator Santorum traveled to Palmyra, Lebanon County to the site of the Palmview housing project to celebrate the current construction of forty-one affordable housing apartments for low-income seniors. Senator Santorum then addressed a housing forum to discuss the challenges communities face with providing affordable housing. Senator Santorum was joined by Brian Hudson, Executive Director of the Pennsylvania Housing Finance Agency; Brian Hoffman, Executive Director of the Lebanon County Housing Authority; and John Bendel, Director of Community Investment at the Federal Home Loan Bank of Pittsburgh. Leaders from the banking, real estate, and homebuilding industries as well as community-based organizations, also attended the forum. 
   Senator Santorum is a member of the Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee.
   Contact: Robert Traynham, 202/224-0610.
 
 