SEN. SANTORUM SPONSORS LEGISLATION TO IMPROVE SCHOOLS' ACCESS TO TECHNOLOGY
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today introduced the Profiting from Access to Computer Technology (PACT) Act, legislation to provide for the transfer of additional surplus computers from the federal government into schools.  
   The PACT Act directs federal agencies to safeguard and identify potential educationally useful Federal equipment, such as computers, that have been declared surplus and transfer such equipment, either directly or through the General Services Administration (GSA), to both public and private schools. The bill would also allow computers to be transferred to nonprofit refurbishers, who would first upgrade the equipment so it is ready for school use. 
   "As I have traveled throughout the Commonwealth and visited many Pennsylvania schools, I've been able to see first-hand the critical need to equip our schools with modern technology," said Senator Santorum. "In today's world, it is important that students possess basic technology skills - skills now fundamental to any career choice. The federal government disposes of 10,000 computers a week, rather than passing them on to schools that greatly need them. I am proud to sponsor this legislation to increase the number of surplus computers being placed in our schools." 
   "I am pleased that Senator Santorum is taking the lead in the Senate on this initiative," said Willie Cade, CEO of Computers for Schools. "This is an important piece of legislation that will make available more computers for students and ultimately result in improved education for this generation." 
   In November 2005, Senator Santorum had the opportunity to deliver computers to five schools in Pennsylvania as part of the United States Senate Computers for Schools Program. The program helps public schools take advantage of the information technology age by channeling surplus computers into classrooms across the country. Senators have the option of participating in the program to return technology paid by taxpayers back to the taxpayers by way of donating computers to public schools.
 
 