SEN. SANTORUM DELIVERS FUNDING TO ALLENTOWN HOUSING AUTHORITY
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today was joined by Rep. Charlie Dent (R-PA-15), Steve Nesmith, Assistant Secretary for Congressional and Intergovernmental Relations, U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), and Daniel Farrell, Executive Director, Allentown Housing Authority to present $20,000,000 to the Allentown Housing Authority for the redevelopment and revitalization of the Hanover Acres and Riverview Terrace (HART) Public Housing Development.  
   The funding presented by Senator Santorum today at the Allentown Housing Authority Office is provided through the Department of Housing and Urban Development's HOPE VI program. Senator Santorum sent a letter to the Department of Housing and Urban Development urging them to support the Hanover Acres and Riverview Terrace (HART) application for HOPE VI funding on April 1, 2005. The project is expected to provide services such as youth programs, adult education, childcare, and homeownership and money-management education. 
   "The revitalization of the Hanover Acres and Riverview Terrace is an important initiative for Allentown and will provide affordable housing and community services. Families from all economic backgrounds will have better opportunities for improved education, skilled job training and job placement," said Senator Santorum. "The HOPE VI program has been successful in meeting the needs of low-income families and providing access to more affordable housing. I believe that this program is essential to improving public housing in communities across our state and that is why I wrote the letter to HUD and asked them to expedite this request." 
   James Pagan a current HART resident and Tenet Council Liaison to the Allentown Housing Authority said, "We are grateful to all the civic leaders gathered here today who were instrumental in securing the HOPE Vl grant. We desire the HOPE Vl revitalization project to be the catalyst by which to break the "circle of poverty" which denies us equal opportunity in life; and to live out productive lives in a community that lends dignity to our ability to change by conscious endeavor." 
   The HOPE VI program provides funding for the complete demolition of the current Hanover Acres and Riverview Terrace units and the construction of 322 new units, a 17,000 square foot community center, a greenway and a park. HOPE VI enhances communities by decentralizing poverty and giving families an opportunity to live in mixed-income neighborhoods with better educational and employment opportunities. 
   "This HOPE VI grant will help transform the face of public housing in Allentown," said HUD Assistant Secretary Steven Nesmith. "As a Pennsylvania native, I am especially pleased that the Allentown Housing Authority is partnering with HUD to revitalize this neighborhood and improve the lives of its residents." 
   "The Allentown Housing Authority would like to thank Senator Santorum for his support of this project as well as the Hope VI program. We hope Senator Santorum will be back to see this project when it is finished. He will not recognize the transformation that will occur on this site as well as the neighborhood when the building is completed," said Donald Senderowitz, Chairman of the Allentown Housing Authority Board.
   Contact: Robert Traynham, 202/224-0610. 
 
 