SEN. SANTORUM DELIVERS FUNDING TO PHILADELPHIA HOUSING AUTHORITY
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today was joined by Steve Nesmith, Assistant Secretary for Congressional and Intergovernmental Relations, U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), and Carl Greene, Executive Director, Philadelphia Housing Authority (PHA) to present $17,059,932 to the Philadelphia Housing Authority for the redevelopment and revitalization of the Ludlow Scattered Sites Public Housing Development.  
   The funding presented by Senator Santorum today at the Philadelphia Housing Authority Building is provided through the Department of Housing and Urban Development's HOPE VI program. Senator Santorum sent a letter to the Department of Housing and Urban Development urging them to support the Ludlow Scattered Sites application for HOPE VI funding on April 1, 2005. The project is expected to provide services such as youth programs, adult education, childcare, and homeownership and money-management education. 
   "The revitalization of the Ludlow Scattered Sites development is an important initiative for Philadelphia and will provide affordable housing and community services. Families from all economic backgrounds will have better opportunities for improved education, skilled job training and job placement," said Senator Santorum. "The HOPE VI program has been successful in meeting the needs of low-income families and providing access to more affordable housing. I believe that this program is essential to improving public housing in communities across our state and that is why I wrote the letter to HUD and asked them to expedite this request." 
   "Senator Santorum has been a great friend to PHA and its clients throughout the years. He has come through again in helping us secure this $17 million dollar grant. The money will bring new life to a section of North Philadelphia and provide affordable homeownership opportunities to more working moderate-income families," said Carl Greene, Executive Director, Philadelphia Housing Authority. 
   "This HOPE VI grant will help transform the face of public housing in this Philadelphia community," said HUD Assistant Secretary Steven Nesmith. "As a Philadelphia native, I am especially pleased that the Philadelphia Housing Authority is partnering with HUD to revitalize this neighborhood and improve the lives of its residents." 
   The original public housing development has been almost entirely demolished and will be replaced with 50 public housing rental units, 50 replacement homeownership units, and 22 affordable homeownership units. The revitalized development will also provide programs aimed to foster self-sufficiency among residents with a range of income levels.
   Contact: Robert Traynham, 202/224-0610. 
 
 