SEN. SANTORUM HONORS U.S. TROOPS AT WHP RALLY FOR TROOPS IN HARRISBURG
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), today spoke at the fourth annual WHP Rally for the Troops at the Pennsylvania State Capitol Building in Harrisburg to show support for the men and women serving in the United States Armed Forces. The Senator also presented RJ Harris, Master of Ceremonies for the event, with a United States flag that has flown over the United States Capitol in honor of our troops. This is the second year the Senator has participated in the rally, which encourages solidarity in support of those in uniform.  
   "I want to thank WHP radio for hosting this event today to show support for our men and women in uniform. This is a great way to raise awareness in the community that we cannot forget the sacrifices our troops make every day," said Senator Santorum. 
   While working to represent all Pennsylvanians, Senator Santorum continues to advocate on behalf of the members of the United States Armed Forces. Most recently, he cosponsored legislation to help lower the amount that troops pay to call home to their families or take care of personal business. The Call Home Act of 2006 was introduced in the United States Senate on April 27 of this year. 
   "The men and women of our military are bravely serving our nation around the globe. During their time overseas, it is important that our troops are able to keep in touch with their families and they should not have to worry about the high costs associated with calling home," said Senator Santorum. "I am proud to support this bill and encourage my colleagues in the Senate to do the same." 
   The Call Home Act of 2006 would require the Federal Communications Commission to work with the Department of Defense and the Department of State to explore ways to reduce telephone rates for military personnel deployed overseas and their families, including waiving fees and assessments, deploying new technology such as Voice over Internet Protocol, encouraging phone companies to provide flexible billing for our troops and their families, and seeking agreements with foreign governments to reduce international surcharges on calls. The bill would update a 1992 law by expanding savings to troops serving in more countries, a reflection of the defense personnel now deployed all over the world in the global war on terror. 
   The Call Home Act of 2006 is a bipartisan bill introduced by Senators Daniel Inouye (D-HI) and Ted Stevens (R-AK).
 
 