SEN. SANTORUM COMMENTS ON NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE REFORM ACT
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today issued the following statement regarding Senate passage of the National Intelligence Reform Act of 2004:  
   "Today the Senate passed the National Intelligence Reform Act of 2004 by a vote of 96-2. This historic legislation will bring sweeping changes to our intelligence community and will improve the ability of the federal government to help prevent terrorist attacks like September 11, 2001. I commend Chairwoman Susan Collins (R-ME) and Ranking Member Senator Joe Lieberman (D-CT) for their dedicated work in crafting a thorough and comprehensive bill to address the recommendations contained in the final report issued by the 9/11 Commission. 
   "I support this important legislation because it creates a new National Counterterrorism Center (NCTC) and a National Intelligence Director (NID) which will strengthen our intelligence capabilities, knowledge base, and oversight powers. 
   "I also support the strong powers given to the NID under this bill. The NID will have the authority to manage the intelligence community through both the budget and personnel. The combination of these two elements strengthen the gathering and analysis functions of the intelligence community, create greater accountability in the intelligence community, and improve our ability to apprehend, disrupt or prevent future terrorist attacks against the United States or our interests. 
   "Sadly, we have learned through personal experience and the findings of the 9/11 Commission that substantial reform is necessary and crucial to protecting Americans at home and abroad. Past failures, well documented in the 9/11 Commission report, demonstrate that holding fast to the status quo is unacceptable. 
   "Our intelligence agencies have been fighting terrorism with the methods and tools of the Cold War, not the 21st century. This reorganization, starting today with the passage of this historic bill, will require that Congress and the Executive Branch remain dedicated to seeing the reforms authorized, carried out and fully implemented. Additionally, the Senate will need to internally address the way it oversees both the operations of the intelligence community and the appropriation of funds for these activities. 
   "I assure Pennsylvanians that I am committed to see that we remain focused, diligent and forward looking as we implement the changes authorized in the National Intelligence Reform Act."
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 