SEN. SANTORUM STRIVES FOR NATIONAL ENERGY INDEPENDENCE
  Sen. Senator Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today cosponsored a Senate resolution that sets an ambitious yet achievable national goal to end our dependence on foreign oil. The resolution establishes that no later than 2025, the agricultural, forestry and working land of the United States should provide from renewable resources not less than 25 percent of the total energy consumed in the United States and continue to produce safe, abundant, and affordable food, feed and fiber.  
   "Independence from foreign oil is not just a financial issue for Americans, it is a national security issue that must be addressed," said Senator Santorum. "We cannot afford to continue to pay $70 per barrel for oil - money that often finances terrorist activities that kill our troops in the field and threaten our national security interests." 
   During a recent speech at Penn State's Ag Progress Days, Senator Santorum issued a challenge to Pennsylvania farmers to take a leading role in helping our nation reduce our dependence on foreign oil. This resolution, S.Con.Res. 97, builds upon this goal by urging the utilization of the American agricultural and rural community to provide 25 percent of American energy by 2025. 
   "I am confident that Pennsylvania can play a pivotal role in securing our nation. Through the increased use of ethanol, biofuels, and other renewable energy alternatives, our nation can become independent from nations with oil who assist terrorists who want to destroy America and everything that we stand for," said Senator Santorum. "This is a mission that is of utmost importance to each and every American, and I urge American agriculture to embrace this challenge and help move our nation forward." 
   Senator Santorum is in the process of crafting comprehensive energy security legislation that will help move our nation to energy independence by 2025. Advancing investments in research and development of renewable energy sources will be primary components of this endeavor.
 
 