SEN. SANTORUM URGES PRESIDENT TO RELEASE REMAINING LIHEAP FUNDING
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, sent a letter to President Bush urging him to release all remaining Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) contingency funds to provide heating assistance for the upcoming winter to low-income families and senior citizens.  
   "I have been a consistent supporter of LIHEAP funding to help consumers meet the cost of rising heating and cooling prices. This past year we saw soaring energy prices and renewed congressional efforts to provide additional assistance. It is my understanding that a vast majority of the LIHEAP contingency funds not yet distributed are only available until the end of this month. On August 4, 2006, I joined a number of my colleagues in requesting that you release all remaining LIHEAP contingency funds. However, this money has yet to be disbursed," Senator Santorum stated in the letter. 
   "This past summer, Pennsylvanians experienced scorching heat. Many of my low-income and elderly constituents need assistance with heating and cooling bills. I look forward to receiving a prompt response from the President and trust that he will order the release of all remaining contingency funds to provide energy assistance," said Senator Santorum. 
   Since being elected to Congress in 1990, Senator Santorum has been a consistent supporter of LIHEAP. Senator Santorum's support for LIHEAP has come in several forms. In 1991, he twice voted against the Labor-Health and Human Services-Education Appropriations bill primarily because it did not provide enough LIHEAP funding. Since this time, Senator Santorum has written no less than nine letters to his colleagues on the House and Senate Appropriations Committees urging sufficient LIHEAP funding. Senator Santorum has also written eight letters to both President Bush and Clinton requesting that they prioritize LIHEAP in the annual budget process and release emergency LIHEAP funding when these funds were desperately needed. Senator Santorum supported three bipartisan amendments to various appropriations bills that would have provided additional LIHEAP funding this year.
 
 