SEN. SANTORUM DELIVERS $3.5 MILLION FOR CONSTRUCTION OF ALLE-KISKI BRIDGE, SPEAKS WITH SMALL BUSINESS LEADERS IN WESTMORELAND COUNTY
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today delivered federal funding to the Alle-Kiski Coalition for the Alle-Kiski Bridge Connector project. The funding was included in the Safe, Accountable, Flexible and Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (SAFETEA-LU), a transportation funding bill which reauthorizes federal funding for surface transportation programs through fiscal year 2009.  
   "Today I am delivering $3.5 million that Senator Specter and I were able to secure for a new four lane bridge that will connect the Pernassus Triangle Area in New Kensington across the Allegheny River to Springdale in Allegheny County," said Senator Santorum. 
   "I want to thank Senator Santorum for his leadership in helping to bring federal funds for the Connector Bridge project. Projects like this are important to the economic health of the Allegheny Valley and surrounding communities. Employers like Allegheny Technology, with four thousand plus employees, depend on a strong transportation infrastructure," said Eileen Watt, Allegheny County Councilwoman. 
   "The Alle-Kiski bridge has a lot of local community support and I am pleased that Senator Santorum and I were able to secure this funding to move the project forward," said Senator Specter. "This type of infrastructure improvement could have a vital impact on the Alle-Kiski Valley's future economic growth and development." 
   After delivering funding in Allegheny County, Senator Santorum traveled to Westmoreland County to speak to Westmoreland SCORE, a nonprofit, volunteer organization, a resource partner with the U.S. Small Business Administration, and affiliated with Saint Vincent College. Westmoreland SCORE consists of local businessmen and women who volunteer their time and expertise to help teach the next generation of small business owners. 
   "Small businesses are the backbone of the American economy and organizations such as Westmoreland SCORE are crucial to keeping the small business industry alive in Pennsylvania," said Senator Santorum. "Starting a business can be a difficult, but with the help of accomplished small business owners, future entrepreneurs can learn how to successfully start their own business, which will generate revenue and jobs for southwestern Pennsylvania." 
   In 2004, Senator Santorum was awarded the Small Business Advocate Award by the Small Business Survival Committee. This award is presented annually to Members of Congress who have demonstrated a commitment to protecting small business and advancing entrepreneurship by consistently voting for key small business legislation.
   Contact: Robert Traynham, 202/224-0610.
 
 