SEN. SANTORUM, REP. ENGLISH ANNOUNCE FEDERAL FUNDING FOR SHARON, MERCER COUNTY
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference and Rep. Phil English (R-3-PA) today announced $706,246 in Community Development Black Grant (CDBG) funding from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development for the City of Sharon, Mercer County. 
   "I am pleased to announce this CDBG funding for Sharon. As I travel to each of Pennsylvania's sixty-seven counties every year, I am able to see first-hand the benefits this funding provides to Pennsylvania's communities to make them better places for families to live, work, and grow," said Senator Santorum. "I have worked hard in the Senate to not only restore CDBG funding after cuts were made, but to increase funding as well, and I remain committed to protecting and increasing CDBG funding that is crucial to the development and growth of both rural and urban areas of Pennsylvania."
   "The Community Development Block Grant program has long been an asset to Pennsylvania communities helping to promote economic growth through the revitalization of our local areas," Congressman English said. "I'm pleased to join Senator Santorum today in announcing this critical funding which will help bolster local development within the City of Sharon."
   Since being elected to the United States Senate in 1994, Senator Santorum has been a strong supporter of various forms of federal funding for community and economic development in Pennsylvania. CDBG funding provides many cities through the Commonwealth with the ability to pursue significant economic revitalization projects and provide affordable housing to low- and moderate- income Pennsylvanians.
   Most recently, Senator Santorum offered an amendment to the FY 2007 Budget Resolution, S.Con.Res.83, which aims to increase funding for the CDBG program by $1.3 billion, bringing the total funding allowed for CDBG funding in the budget to $4.3 billion. The Senate passed the amendment on March 15, 2006 by a bipartisan vote of 60-38.
 
 