SEN. SANTORUM CO-CHAIRS MINORITY HEALTH FORUM
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, together with U.S. Senate Majority Leader William H. Frist, M.D., hosted the Minority Health Quality Forum today in Washington, D.C.  
   Organized by the Senate Republican Conference and the Senate Majority Leader, the policy forum provided an opportunity for constructive dialogue about the quality of minority health and health care in America, and to identify possible solutions to reduce or eliminate disparities. 
   The forum, held at the U.S. Library of Congress, brought several U.S. Senators together with more than 100 representatives from national medical and community health organizations to discuss some of the pressing issues affecting health care for minority communities. Senator Santorum hopes that this forum will help foster comprehensive solutions that directly address America's health disparities. 
   "I thank Senator Frist for helping to organize this roundtable discussion on how chronic diseases such as cancer, HIV/AIDS, heart disease, stroke and diabetes, as well as obesity and infant mortality, can significantly impact minority communities more than other communities within the general population," said Santorum. 
   The Keynote Speaker for the forum was Louis Sullivan, M.D., Chair of the President's Advisory Board for Historically Black Colleges and Universities, and President Emeritus of Morehouse College of Medicine. Other distinguished speakers included: Rene Rodriguez, M.D., Interamerican College of Physicians and Surgeons; John Ruffin, Ph.D., National Center on Minority Health and Health Disparities, National Institutes of Health; Julie Gerberding, M.D., Centers for Disease Control and Prevention; Dennis Andrulis, Ph.D., M.P.H., SUNY/Downstate Medical Center; Joseph Betancourt, M.D., M.P.H., Program Director for Multicultural Education, Massachusetts General Harvard Medical School; Carolyn Clancy, M.D., Agency for Healthcare, Research and Quality; Harold Freeman, M.D., Ralph Lauren Center for Cancer Care and Prevention. 
   "This forum is an excellent way to open the lines of communication between members of the medical and health communities and legislators to better understand what causes these health disparities, and what can be done to prevent and care for those afflicted with these diseases," Santorum concluded.
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 