SEN. SANTORUM VISITS FEDERAL AIR MARSHAL SERVICE IN PITTSBURGH
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today met with Ted Hresko, Special Agent in Charge (SAIC), and Dan Boeh, Assistant Special Agent in Charge, at the Pittsburgh Field Office of the Federal Air Marshal Service today.  
   Senator Santorum toured the Pittsburgh field office, which includes an operations center, a weight room, and a mat room where trainees learn defensive tactics, before observing simulated training in a mock aircraft. 
   "While the flying public plays an important role in the post-September 11th era of homeland security, the trained members of the Federal Air Marshal Service provide an added level of security," said Senator Santorum. "I commend them for their efforts and for the vital role they will continue to play in our war against terrorism here at home and abroad." 
   The number of Federal Air Marshals jumped from 33 nationwide before September 11th, to thousands who fly on both domestic and international flights. Their mission states that they are "to promote confidence in our nation's civil aviation system through the effective deployment of Federal Air Marshals to detect, deter, and defeat hostile acts targeting US Air carriers, airports, passengers, and crews." 
   "We're preventing another 9-11 from happening," said Ted Hresko, SAIC. "Our Marshals train more frequently than any other federal agency; our comprehensive law enforcement training program incorporates weight training with defensive tactics, firearm training, as well as first-aid training and instruction on how to identify explosives." 
   SAIC Hresko, who has more than 28 years of experience with the Secret Service, said Monday's visit provides the Senator with an opportunity to learn more about how hard and how often the Marshals train. Both men and women undergo training at the Pittsburgh Field Office facility, which opened shortly after September 11th, 2001.
   Contact: Amy Hybels, 202/224-0610.
 
 