SEN. SANTORUM SPONSORS LEGISLATION TO REVITALIZE BROWNFIELDS SITES
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, introduced legislation today that will encourage the clean up of brownfields sites.  
   Brownfields are once-functional industrial commercial sites that are now abandoned, inactive or under-used, and have been affected by environmental contamination. The process of cleaning up these sites to make them viable again is costly and time consuming. While the price tag varies with each site, it is not unreasonable for the clean up cost of a major site to run between $500,000 and $1 million because of environmental pollutants. 
   Senator Santorum and Senator Evan Bayh (D-IN) introduced legislation today that would allow expensing of brownfields clean up costs to be a permanent fixture in the Tax Code. 
   "Brownfields sites are a long-term problem and this legislation will allow us to continue to address this important task," said Senator Santorum. 
   In the past, clean up costs associated with brownfields had to be capitalized to the land, postponing any recovery of these costs for tax purposes until the property was sold. As part of the Community Renewal and Revitalization Act of 2000, Congress enacted tax incentives, which allowed clean up costs to be expensed in the year they were incurred. These provisions expired after 2003. The Senate's pending FY04 international tax bill would renew the expired incentives for two years. 
   The Santorum-Bayh legislation would extend the same tax provisions to offset the costs of remediating these sites, and would make the incentives permanent. Since a large percentage of brownfields across the country are contaminated with petroleum, the bill would also broaden the qualifying definition of "hazardous substances," which would enable petroleum-contaminated sites to be eligible for the tax incentives as well. The bill also repeals the provision in the law that requires a taxpayer who uses the clean up deduction to pay income tax on that amount when he or she sells the property. 
   "Many brownfields are located in prime business locations near critical infrastructure, including transportation, and close to an already productive workforce," said Senator Santorum. "Putting these sites back into use will generate good-paying jobs and affordable housing in areas where they are most needed." 
   Redevelopment of the nation's existing brownfields would bring additional tax revenues of approximately $2 billion annually and could create hundreds of thousands of jobs.
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-4474.
 
 