SEN. SANTORUM ANNOUNCES $38.5 MILLION ASSISTANCE TO LOW-INCOME COMMUNITIES THROUGH PHILADELPHIA COMPANY
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, announced today a multi-million-dollar tax credit allocated to The Reinvestment Fund, Inc., of Philadelphia, PA. The tax credit is through the New Markets Tax Credit (NMTC) Program administered by the Department of the Treasury's Community Development Financial Institutions (CDFI) Fund.  
   The tax credit is through the New Markets Tax Credit Program permits taxpayers to receive a credit against federal income taxes for making qualified equity investments in designated Community Development Entities (CDEs). These qualified equity investments are then used by the CDE to provide investments in low-income communities. 
   "This is an excellent opportunity for community renewal in the Commonwealth. I am pleased that the Department of Treasury has allocated a $38,500,000 tax credit to The Reinvestment Fund, Inc.," said Senator Santorum. "The Reinvestment Fund will utilize this substantial tax credit to provide real estate financing to small businesses, as well as financing to non-profit community facilities such as day care centers, charter schools, and food aid distributors throughout Pennsylvania." 
   The New Markets Tax Credit Program was established as a direct result of legislation introduced and co sponsored by Senator Santorum and Senator Joseph Lieberman (D-CT), and was signed into law in 2000. The major provisions of S. 2779, the American Community Renewal and New Markets Empowerment Act, aim to revitalize low-income communities through tax incentives for organizations who invest in projects to improve standards of living. 
   "The American Community Renewal and New Markets Empowerment Act was specifically designed to give Pennsylvania communities the tools necessary to battle poverty," said Senator Santorum. "I believe this is a crucial step to improve the quality of life for Pennsylvanians. Through economic empowerment, organizations are encouraged to invest in reconstruction and rehabilitative efforts in both urban and rural communities." 
   "We appreciate Senator Santorum's leadership and continued support for community and economic development. The Reinvestment Fund is happy to have the Treasury Department support to help us reach new investors to serve low income communities in our region," said Jeremy Nowak, President and CEO.
   Contact: Christine Shott and Amy Hybels, 202/224-0610.
 
 