SEN. SANTORUM DISCUSSES NONPROFIT, CHARITABLE REFORM LEGISLATION AT TOWN HALL MEETING IN NORTHAMPTON COUNTY
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, delivered the keynote address today at a town hall meeting sponsored by the Pennsylvania Association of Nonprofit Organizations (PANO), the Moravian College Comenius Center and the United Way of Pennsylvania.  
   Senator Santorum discussed the CARE (Charity, Aid, Recovery and Empowerment) Act (S. 1780), the Hurricane Relief Act and nonprofit reform legislation. Other panel participants included Joe Geiger, Executive Director of PANO; Philip Hayne, Senior Vice President of the United Way of Greater Lehigh Valley; Stuart B. Weiser, President of the Allied Arts Fund; and Ervin Rokke, President of Moravian College. 
   "Nonprofit organizations provide services, programs, and true compassion to the communities they serve. We can see the tangible results of the hard work of nonprofit organizations in communities across our state," said Senator Santorum. "The work of charitable and nonprofit organizations and their volunteers has been a source of encouragement for others. I am hopeful that my colleagues in the Senate will join Senator Lieberman and me in supporting these organizations and individuals who are the backbone of our communities." 
   As a member of the U.S. Senate Finance Committee and Chairman of the Subcommittee on Social Security and Family Policy, Senator Santorum has been a leader in the Senate, working in a bipartisan fashion on reform legislation regarding charitable giving and charitable organizations. 
   "Charitable and nonprofit organizations play a vital role in Pennsylvania - improving the quality of life and providing relief to individuals in need. Pennsylvania's charities have also helped to stimulate the state's economy and generate employment," said Joe Geiger, Executive Director of PANO. "We invited Senator Santorum to speak today because of his commitment and leadership to nonprofit and charitable reform legislation. In his capacity as a member of the Senate Finance Committee, Senator Santorum is committed to advancing the CARE Act, which is designed to provide incentives for charitable giving and support the many charitable organizations that make a difference in Pennsylvania." 
   Last month, Senator Santorum and Senator Lieberman introduced the CARE Act. In the last Congress, the CARE Act garnered the endorsements of more than 1,600 organizations and passed the Senate with overwhelming bipartisan support. However, partisan politics prevented the bill from going to conference. If passed during the 109th Congress, the CARE Act will provide new and increased incentives for charitable giving as well as broadly supported commonsense reforms. 
   For more information about the CARE Act go to: http://santorum.senate.gov.
   Contact: Robert Traynham, 202/224-0610.
 
 