SEN. SANTORUM: SEN. KERRY'S HEALTH CARE PLAN IS COMPLICATED, COSTLY, RESTRICTIVE
 Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today issued the following statement regarding Sen. John Kerry's (D-MA) health care plan for America:  
   "Senator John Kerry proposes a health care plan that would cost the American taxpayers $1.5 trillion over the next ten years. This plan is extremely complicated, astronomically costly, and prohibitively restrictive. Under Kerry's health plan it would cost approximately $5,500 to cover each newly insured individual, compared to the President's plan which costs less than $2,000 per newly insured American. 
   "Kerry's health plan proposes numerous new and expanded government agencies and functions. One of the most troubling of these functions is that under Kerry's plan, schools would assume responsibility for enrolling children in Medicaid. Schools should be focused on teaching our children, not functioning as social service agencies. 
   "Senator Kerry has spoken often of his plans to repeal tax cuts for "the wealthy" to pay for a variety of new government spending programs. Repealing tax cuts for people with incomes of $200,000 and above would not come close to paying for Kerry's plan, falling nearly $1 trillion short. Even if Senator Kerry repealed ALL of President Bush's tax cuts - including the middle-class tax rate reduction, marriage penalty relief and child tax credits, which are helping hard-working Americans - he would still be $500 billion short to pay for his plan. His plan would significantly raise taxes on all Americans. Different estimates calculate that American families would pay between $1,000 to $1,500 in higher taxes to fund the Kerry health plan. 
   "Kerry's health plan would also sacrifice private health coverage. The plan includes a proposed massive expansion of Medicaid, a federal health care program for low-income Americans. Expanding Medicaid will displace many who already have private insurance, leaving them with government run health care that limits patients' access to doctors and treatments. One analysis predicts that 8 million Americans who are currently insured would lose their private coverage and be forced into Kerry's expanded Medicaid. 
   "Most troubling is that Kerry's reinsurance plan would make the federal government the final decision maker for catastrophic coverage, thereby dictating treatment decisions - determining what costs and which treatments would be covered under the premium rebates. For example, the government would reimburse for expensive treatments such as organ transplants and costly cancer care, making coverage and payment decisions on what treatments would be included, leading either to government rationing to control costs or large tax increases to cover all health care treatments. 
   "President Bush is leading America in the right direction on health care using a targeted, commonsense approach that does not replace private insurance with government run health care. His plan proposes responsible reform at a responsible cost of $129 billion. Health decisions will remain the responsibility of patients and doctors - not the federal government. Bush's plan also encourages people who are not insured to become insured, without disrupting or increasing government control on the private insurance market. Taxpayers will pay less and have more choices under Bush's health care plan." 
   "Senator Kerry's health plan would result in bigger government and significantly higher taxes. That's a hard pill to swallow." 
   Please visit Senator Santorum's website at http://santorum.senate.gov/ and click on Television Clips to view the Senator's Floor Speech on Senator Kerry's health plan.
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 