SEN. SANTORUM: PENSIONS MUST BE PROTECTED
  When a company hires an individual, the two parties are entering into an agreement. The worker agrees to a number of things, the most basic being that he or she will come to work and perform the job to a certain standard. The employer, too, agrees to conditions, most obviously that the worker will be paid a specific monetary amount for his or her services. But there are often other aspects of this agreement, with employers committing to provide the worker with things like health benefits, tuition assistance, or a retirement program. These are just as important to many workers as a paycheck, and certainly as deserved. 
   There are a variety of retirement programs that employers can offer. One type of program that has been around for many years and is still prevalent today is a pension program. There are two basic types of pension plans: single employer and multi-employer plans. Single employer plans are operated and funded by one company for the benefit of its employees. Multi-employer plans exist when a number of companies in an industry, such as construction or trucking, join together in a plan that covers all their employees. This allows for workers to move between companies and stay in the same pension plan. Under both types of pension plans, a worker who has been enrolled for a designated amount of time will receive an income to support them during retirement. 
   Retirement, for most Americans, is a time when finances are very structured and income is fixed. American workers entered into pension plans are told they will receive a specific amount and plan for their retirement accordingly. Unfortunately, a recent trend has companies falling into bankruptcy and becoming unable to fulfill the commitment they made to their employees. In Pennsylvania, we've seen companies as large as Bethlehem Steel and US Airways file for bankruptcy and default on their pensions, affecting thousands of workers who are counting on this money to support them. 
   During the time a company is financially stable, it pays a premium to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC), an institution of the federal government which essentially acts as insurance for the company's pension program. If, at some point in the future, the company is no longer able to finance its pension program, it defaults and the PBGC takes over the plan. But workers do not receive anywhere near the amount promised by their pension plan--the PBGC can simply not afford to pay it. The severe reduction in pension benefits for so many workers leaves no doubt about the need for reform. 
   Over the past few months the Senate has made tremendous strides in putting together a solid pension reform package. Unfortunately, the reform package, although including provisions relating to multi-employer pension plans, does not include the comprehensive reform needed. It is important to remember that there are approximately 1,600 multi-employer pension plans across the country, covering close to ten million American workers and retirees. 
   In order to better address the stability of multi-employer plans, I recently introduced the bipartisan Multi-Employer Plan Funding and Deduction Reform Act. The introduction of this legislation is the product of extensive consultation with the Multiemployer Pension Plan Coalition in order to develop a solution, agreeable to both management and labor, which will ensure the long-term viability of these plans. 
   This bill does a number of things to accomplish this important goal. First, it imposes discipline on the trustees of plans in distress in order to prevent them from digging an even deeper hole. It provides for necessary goals and timetables that will ensure that the appropriate funding levels are met. And it gives the plan trustees tools, such as an increased ability to receive tax deductions for benefit contributions, which will assist them in getting to a reasonable funding level as quickly as possible. 
   Pensions are more than just expectations, they are valued commitments made to employees. American workers put in long working lives and certainly deserve a retirement complete with the pension they were promised and that they planned for. This bill is incredibly important to the future of all Americans, and I am committed to working with my Senate colleagues, both Democrat and Republican, towards its passage. We cannot allow the retirement security of our citizens to remain at risk.
   Contact: Tim Pearson, 202/224-0610.
 
 