SEN. SANTORUM COMMENTS ON SENATE PASSAGE OF THE NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE REFORM ACT OF 2004
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, announced today the Senate passage of the conference report to accompany S. 2845, the National Intelligence Reform Act of 2004.  
   "I am pleased that the Senate has passed the Intelligence Reform Bill by a vote of 89-2. This legislation has earned the support of the bipartisan 9/11 Commission, President Bush, and was passed by the House of Representatives in a bipartisan vote of 336-75," said Senator Santorum. 
   The bill creates a Director of National Intelligence, a single individual who will be responsible for coordinating America's intelligence and will be directly accountable to the President and the American people. Under the leadership of this individual, an intelligence budget will be developed and our nation's fifteen intelligence agencies will better coordinated to function as one cohesive intelligence community. 
   "This legislation shakes up the intelligence community so that we can better respond in the War on Terrorism and to better protect our homeland and all Americans. September 11, 2001 marked the beginning of a new era in this country. This legislation authorizes overdue reforms that will enable better cooperation and coordination within our intelligence community," said Senator Santorum. "This historic reform signifies an understanding in Congress that the safety of our country is a top priority. As a member of the Senate Republican Leadership, I will continue to work with my colleagues to ensure that together with the Executive Branch we remain vigilant as the reforms are carried out and to ensure that they are carried out in a timely manner that is efficient and effective." 
   Additionally, the legislation authorizes a National Counterterrorism Center (NCTC) to plan intelligence missions and counterterrorism operations. Additionally, the bill helps address many of the concerns regarding illegal aliens entering our borders. The bill authorizes the hiring of additional border control agents and the expansion of detention space for the Department of Homeland Security to house illegal aliens and terrorist suspects. 
   The Intelligence Reform Bill will authorize new programs and pilot programs intended to upgrade airport and airplane security, including explosives detection screening for carry-on baggage, training for federal air marshals, blast resistant cargo and baggage containers, and more screening of airport workers. The legislation also authorizes an Independent Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board to help strike a balance between the needs for increased security and individual liberties. 
   "I congratulate Senators Collins and Lieberman and House leaders for crafting a bipartisan bill that will help make America's intelligence capabilities stronger and help implement many of the recommendations of the bipartisan 9/11 Commission."
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 