SEN. SANTORUM APPLAUDS HEALTH CARE RELATED SUCCESSES FOR PENNSYLVANIANS
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today praised his Congressional colleagues and President Bush for signing into law the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 (DRA), which includes a number of successes related to health care.  
   This major piece of legislation includes a provision that improves access to crucial, life-saving colon cancer screening services. The provision, which Senator Santorum worked to include in the legislation, makes it easier and less costly for Medicare beneficiaries to access preventive colon cancer screening services by eliminating the usual Medicare Part B deductible.
   "I am particularly pleased that the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 will waive the deductible for colorectal cancer screening - a provision in my Colon Cancer Screen for Life Act of 2005 (S. 1010) and a provision for which I strongly advocated on behalf of my constituents. Colon cancer is the number two cancer killer in the United States, yet it is highly detectable, treatable and curable if found in its early stages," said Senator Santorum. 
   Another provision provides an update for dialysis facilities - a key provision in Senator Santorum's Kidney Care Quality and Improvement Act of 2005, legislation he introduced to help ensure continued beneficiary access to important dialysis care. 
   Additionally, the legislation helps to preserve access to inpatient rehabilitation hospitals, and establishes a post-acute care demonstration program to analyze costs and outcomes across different post-acute care settings following hospitalization - provisions similar to the Preserving Patient Access to Inpatient Rehabilitation Hospitals Act of 2005 (S. 1405), of which Senator Santorum was an original cosponsor. This demonstration will provide participating patients and healthcare providers standardized tools to review and improve patient conditions for effective, focused post-acute care. 
   Senator Santorum was able to secure a provision that will allow children's hospitals to participate in a drug discount program that will save Pennsylvania children's hospitals millions of dollars. The National Association of Children's Hospitals estimated the savings will be approximately $16 million a year for Pennsylvania. 
   "Pennsylvania is fortunate to be the home to many prestigious children's hospitals including the Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh, Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, Temple Children's Hospital, and St. Christopher's," said Senator Santorum. "A drug discount program will save these hospitals millions of dollars - money that can be reinvested in services that benefit patients and families who visit these hospitals."
 
 