SEN. SANTORUM URGES AMERICANS TO INCREASE CHARITABLE GIVING
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, and Rep. George Radanovich (R-CA-19th) unveiled their Joint Senate-House Resolution on the "One Percent Plan" today, urging Americans to increase their charitable giving by one percentage point nationally. Currently, the charitable giving rate as a measure of individual personal disposable income is at 1.9% and has stalled between 1.5-2.2% for the past 50 years. The goal is to increase charitable giving from two percent to three percent as a national average. This one percent charitable giving increase would equal over $90 billion for charities nationwide.  
   "Many organizations in the United States rely on the charity and generosity of others as a source of revenue so they can provide services to those who are less fortunate," said Senator Santorum. "As a caring and compassionate society, it is our responsibility to help improve the quality of life for more Americans. If Americans increased their current rate of giving by one percent, the charitable organizations who work hard to improve the landscape of our country every day will benefit tremendously." 
   Senator Santorum has also sponsored legislation that encourages giving through incentives to businesses and individuals who help those in need. The Charity Aid, Recovery, and Empowerment Act (CARE Act) provides individuals with the opportunity to give tax-free contributions from their Individual Retirement Accounts for charitable purposes. The CARE Act is included in S. 6, the Marriage, Opportunity, Relief, and Empowerment Act of 2005. 
   "This Plan is urgent, revolutionary, simple and bipartisan," Representative Radanovich said. "If you don't give, begin to give; if you do give, please give a little more-the spirit of the American people will ultimately give life to our project today." 
   Bill Bentley, COO of Points of Light Foundation; Dr. Arthur Brooks, Associate Professor of Public Administration and Director of the Non-profit Studies Program at Syracuse University's Maxwell School of Public Affairs; and Paul Thornell, Vice President of Public Affairs for the United Way also made remarks.
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 