SEN. SANTORUM PRAISES SENATE PASSAGE OF HOME HEATING ASSISTANCE
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today announced Senate passage of an additional $1 billion for the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) in Fiscal Year 2006 through Senate passage of S. 2320, the LIHEAP bill. Sen. Santorum is a cosponsor of the legislation which will help states like Pennsylvania receive additional funding for heating assistance during the cold winter months. The House must now pass this bill for it to go to the President's desk for signature. 
   "LIHEAP is an important program that helps many elderly and low-income Pennsylvanians who are facing record heating costs already this winter season," said Senator Santorum. "The majority of funds approved today will be distributed to favor cold weather states like Pennsylvania. As we all know, Pennsylvania routinely faces harsh winters and has one of the oldest populations in the country."
   In January 2006, Senator Santorum chaired a field hearing in West Mifflin, Allegheny County, to examine the effect of home heating prices on the elderly and ways in which the government and private sector are addressing this problem.
   In light of rising energy costs, Senator Santorum has been working to find ways to alleviate the burdensome costs for many Pennsylvanians. Since being elected to Congress in 1990, Senator Santorum has been a consistent supporter of LIHEAP. Senator Santorum's support for LIHEAP has come in several forms. In 1991, he twice voted against the Labor-Health and Human Services-Education Appropriations bill primarily because it did not provide enough LIHEAP funding. Since this time, Senator Santorum has written no less than nine letters to his colleagues on the House and Senate Appropriations Committees urging sufficient LIHEAP funding. Senator Santorum has also written six letters to both President Bush and Clinton requesting that they prioritize LIHEAP in the annual budget process and release emergency LIHEAP funding when these funds were desperately needed. Senator Santorum supported three bipartisan amendments to various appropriations bills that would have provided additional LIHEAP funding this year.
 
 