SEN. SANTORUM CHAMPIONS AFFORDABLE HEALTH COVERAGE FOR PENNSYLVANIA SMALL BUSINESSES
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today issued the following statement regarding the progress of the Health Insurance Marketplace Modernization and Affordability Act (S. 1955) in the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions (HELP) Committee. 
   "For too long Pennsylvania's small businesses have struggled to afford quality health insurance. I applaud HELP Committee Chairman Enzi for advancing legislation that will provide much needed relief," said Senator Santorum. "I am hopeful that the Senate will quickly bring up this measure for a debate on how we can best address the healthcare insurance needs of small businesses and their employees."
   "As a member of the Senate Republican leadership and Co-Chair of the Senate Health Care Working Group, I will continue to work with my colleagues on behalf of Pennsylvania small businesses to ensure that workers across the Commonwealth have access to quality and affordable health care," Senator Santorum commented.
   Senator Michael Enzi (R-WY), Chairman of the Senate HELP Committe, today commented that, "Senator Santorum's support and leadership on policies to help small businesses afford healthcare coverage have been instrumental in making progress toward today's HELP Committee mark-up of S. 1955 - the Health Insurance Marketplace Modernization and Affordability Act. Senator Santorum is a true champion of small business owners, their employees and working families across the country. I look forward to his help in getting S. 1955 onto the floor of the Senate for a vote soon."
   The Health Insurance Marketplace Modernization and Affordability Act is a market-based option to reduce employer costs and expand coverage to the uninsured by allowing small businesses to band together to increase their purchasing power by negotiating health insurance at a group rate.
   Contact: Robert Traynham, 202/224-0610.
 
 