SEN. SANTORUM RALLIES SUPPORT FOR MEDICAL LIABILITY REFORM
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, attended a press conference today to call for a fair up-or-down vote on two medical liability reform bills before the Senate. More than 300 doctors with the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecology (ACOG) joined Senator Santorum at today's press conference. The Senate Republican Conference has designated today "Health Monday" to highlight the importance of quality health care in America, including the need to address the nation's medical liability crisis that is affecting more and more patients and is threatening their access to reliable, quality health care services.  
   Today the Senate will vote on whether or not to consider the Healthy Mothers and Healthy Babies Access to Care Act (S.23) and the Medical Access Protection Act of 2006 (S. 22). 
   "I appreciate the support of the hundreds of doctors - including many from Pennsylvania - who traveled to the Capitol today to emphasize the need for this critical legislation," said Senator Santorum. 
   Last week, Senator Santorum introduced S. 23, a bill to reduce the excessive burden the medical liability crisis has on individuals that serve the women and newborns of our communities by providing obstetrical and gynecological services. 
   "There is a medical liability crisis in America. Frivolous lawsuits have driven up medical liability insurance premiums, restricting and in some cases abolishing patients' access to quality healthcare - particularly obstetrical and gynecological services," said Senator Santorum. "This crisis has led many physicians to severely restrict the scope of their practices, and some have been forced to leave their practice entirely. These changes are having a direct impact on Pennsylvanians, dangerously limiting the access that Pennsylvania women have to the quality healthcare providers they need." 
   The Healthy Mothers and Healthy Babies Act would institute a $750,000 stacked cap on non-economic damages, a cap that includes a $250,000 limit on the non-economic damages assumed by healthcare providers. The bill will not in any way limit the amount of economic damages that can be awarded in a lawsuit, meaning patients who have been medically impacted by negligence would not be forced to assume the costs of their medical care. 
   The bill is modeled after a similar law currently used in the state of Texas. Since the law's enactment, 3,000 new physicians have moved to Texas. In 2005, Texas became the only state to ever be removed from the American Medical Association's list of states in liability crisis.
 
 