SEN. SANTORUM ATTENDS ANNOUNCEMENT OF NEW NATIONAL CENTER FOR BRIDGE, HIGHWAY, RAPID TRANSIT TECHNOLOGIES IN PITTSBURGH
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today spoke at the official announcement for the establishment of the National Center for Bridge, Highway, and Rapid Transit Technologies, based in Pittsburgh.  
   The Center will be created by the Pittsburgh Gateways Corporation, through a two-year grant from the R.K. Mellon Foundation. This initiative is expected to create several hundred jobs and generate regional revenue of about $37 million over the next five years. 
   "The goal is for the Center to serve as a hub for local and national technology companies that desire to base themselves in southwestern Pennsylvania and invest in jobs in the region," said Senator Santorum. "Southwestern Pennsylvania is an excellent location for this Center because of the unique and diverse terrain and climate of the region. Through this initiative, I predict that Pittsburgh can become a leading center for developing technology that will help prevent infrastructure deterioration and help repair existing bridges, highways, and transit systems." 
   With the Center's help, technologies such as the HERMES Radar Bridge Inspection System may come to southwestern Pennsylvania. The system developed by the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory uses technology that measures and maps critical information about the condition of a bridge deck much faster and cheaper than current methods. 
   Bob Meeder, President of Pittsburgh Gateways Corporation; Dan Onorato, Allegheny County Executive; and Frank Wilson, Chairman of the Advisory Board for the Center joined Santorum for the announcement. 
   "We will strive to make Pittsburgh the leading hub for the commercial development of transportation technologies. We appreciate the invaluable assistance and support of Senator Santorum to help bring national attention to this initiative in southwestern Pennsylvania," said Meeder.
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 