'STEM CELL RESEARCH-SETTING THE RECORD STRAIGHT'
  By Sen. Rick Santorum
   The record must be set straight regarding stem cell research. Misleading information must be corrected, and high expectations must be lowered. The information you have heard in the last two months from Senators John Kerry and John Edwards, as well as Ron Reagan, is not an accurate assessment of the issue. Allow me to set the record straight.  
   The issue of stem cell research has come to the forefront of political discourse. Senator Kerry and his running mate have spoken of their support for embryonic stem cell research in several of their past campaign speeches, and have even made increasing funding for embryonic stem cell research part of their party's platform. At the same time, President Bush provided the first federal funding ever in 2001 for embryonic stem cell research on stem cell lines in existence at that time. First Lady Laura Bush has also recently focused on the misrepresentation of further expansion of federal funding for embryonic stem cell research during a recent visit to Langhorne, Pennsylvania. 
   In order to conduct embryonic stem cell research, you must destroy a human embryo. Embryonic stem cells come from early embryos within the first few days of life, whether created via in vitro fertilization or human cloning. Extracting the stem cell destroys the embryo. 
   At the Democratic National Convention, Ron Reagan, son of former President Reagan, referred to "the use of embryonic stem cells-cells created using the material of our own bodies," in other words-cloning. During this address, Ron Reagan, speaking on behalf of the Democratic Party, painted a picture of a future in which individuals have cloned embryos of themselves ready at all times to be destroyed and harvested for stem cells. I find this future vision extremely disturbing, and will work to ensure that this never becomes a reality. 
   I believe that the question of embryonic stem cell research is one of the great moral issues of our time. Make no mistake: embryonic stem cell research destroys a human life for the purposes of scientific research. The federal government should not use taxpayers' money to destroy these embryos for research. 
   Embryonic stem cell advocates have distorted the facts about the promise of embryonic stem cell research. We hear that embryonic stem cell research will be a cure-all for Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, or diabetes. However, the truth is that embryonic stem cell research has yet to yield any results to successfully treat any disease or affliction. 
   It is unethical to raise the hopes of those currently suffering from these diseases to win political points. Even if embryonic stem cell research becomes federally funded tomorrow, we have no guarantee that cures for diabetes or Parkinson's are just around the corner. How can "help be on the way" as Kerry says, when there has not been a single human trial of an embryonic stem cell therapy? 
   Some help is already here-and it can be found in the form of adult stem cell research and similar therapies. Unlike embryonic research, adult stem cells do not raise the moral questions about destroying a human life. These cells come from bone marrow, umbilical cord blood, skin, and even fat cells. Adult stem cell research is being done worldwide and is showing results. 
   Many patients suffering from a range of diseases are already being helped with treatments developed from adult stem cells. I support this solid science, which has already demonstrated success in treating multiple sclerosis, lupus, sickle cell anemia, cartilage damage, heart damage, symptoms of Parkinson's disease, and restoring sight to blind patients and movement to spinal cord injury patients. 
   For example, adult stem cell therapies were recently used by a doctor in Portugal to treat patients suffering paralysis after traumatic accidents. After this therapy, some of these patients, who at one point expected never to walk again, can now walk with the assistance of leg braces. It is because of successes such as these that I have been a strong supporter of adult stem cells and have worked hard in Congress to secure millions of dollars for regenerative medical research in Pennsylvania, which includes using adult stem cells and other ethical therapies to find cures for diseases. 
   I believe that we should do all that we can do to encourage life-saving research. We should focus on science that works and not make unrealistic promises about speculative, unproven science. Adult stem cell research has shown promise in helping to cure people, without having to destroy human life in the process.
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 