'PENNSYLVANIA MAKES THE GRADE'
 By Sen. Rick Santorum
   In 1887, Pennsylvania was among the first of eight states to pass a state law establishing Labor Day as a holiday, celebrating the accomplishments of our workers. Our strong workforce, inspiring entrepreneurs, and small business owners add much to the fabric of our commonwealth. Today, Pennsylvania is also leading the pack in improving public education. I am proud to represent a commonwealth that is working hard to prepare our children with the basic skills they will need to succeed in life.  
   I am proud of the progress that Pennsylvania has made since the enactment of No Child Left Behind, and I value our administrators, teachers, and parents who are working hard to help our children achieve more under the new education reform. On January 23, 2001, when President Bush unveiled the No Child Left Behind education reform proposal, it was Republicans who stepped to the plate-choosing not to ignore the education crisis that was sending more and more of our children into the world without basic skills. This year, Pennsylvania teachers and administrators followed suit with a home run in improving education for our children. 
   No Child Left Behind has offered Pennsylvania's school districts unprecedented flexibility in the use of federal funds. President Bush's 2005 budget proposal increases federal education funding for Pennsylvania to more than $5.3 billion-41 percent more than in 2000. Pennsylvania's Title I funding allotment-which helps the neediest children-has increased by $97.3 million since 2001. 
   Parents have more information about the quality of public schools in Pennsylvania than ever before. Under No Child Left Behind, schools must release certain information about student achievement in math and reading. Schools that consistently fail to educate children at grade level and meet the adequate yearly progress goals must offer parents alternative options, such as tutoring and school choice. Pennsylvania has the freedom to set its adequate yearly progress (AYP) goals for its schools-including tests and targets for reading proficiency, English achievement, and mathematical skills. Equipped with data on reading and math tests, graduation rates, teacher qualifications, and whether or not a school has been identified as a "needs improvement" school, parents can take control of their child's education. 
   Pennsylvania is participating in a pilot program that provides parents and teachers with up-to-date school, district, and state student achievement data through a nonpartisan website-www.SchoolResults.org-launched by the School Information Partnership and endorsed by the U.S. Department of Education. Pennsylvania parents and teachers can view relevant information about the performance of their local schools, neighboring schools and districts, and the entire state. The website provides comparative tools and benchmarks to monitor progress of local schools and districts within the state. 
   As parents have more access to information they are empowered to hold school districts accountable to implement their highest education priorities. Philadelphia School District, which once had a large achievement gap and was on the verge of bankruptcy, experienced the second straight year of test-score gains on standardized tests. Specifically, in math there was a 4.3 percent increase in students who met or exceeded the national average. 
   Pennsylvania's statewide system of accountability and support from parents, administrators, and students is reflected in the progress that our schools have made over two years. For the 2003-2004 school year, 81 percent of schools met AYP-a 19 percent increase over the previous school year. 
   No Child Left Behind is bringing hope and progress to Pennsylvania's students, parents, and teachers. Children are being given the opportunity to achieve new levels of learning. Schools in Pittsburgh are encouraging students in kindergarten through eighth grade to read ten books during the summer and write book reports. Students who complete the Summer Reading Achievers program will receive prizes and certificates. 
   Children are already beginning to reap the benefits of the education reform. I applaud our students, parents, and educators who have remained patient through the implementation process of one of the largest education reform efforts of this generation. I am encouraged by the progress that Pennsylvania schools have shown this past year and the high standards they continue to set. 
   Education is a gateway to the future, and no child should be denied access to a quality education that provides them with the opportunity to go to college, find a job, and have a successful future.
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 