SEN. SANTORUM JOINS USDA RURAL DEVELOPMENT TO DELIVER FUNDING FOR PENNSYLVANIA RENEWABLE ENERGY PROJECTS
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today joined U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Rural Development Administrator State Director Gary H. Groves to present a check for federal funding for renewable energy projects to three Pennsylvania recipients; they include Brubaker Farms of Mount Joy, Lancaster County; Reinford Farms of Mifflintown, Juniata County; and Bortnick Dairy of Conneautville, Crawford County.  
   "As a member of the Agriculture Committee, I appreciate Senator Santorum's commitment to renewable energy projects and research, that not only support American farmers, but also helps our country work toward being more self-sufficient in our energy needs," Mike Brubaker, one of the co-owner's of Brubaker Farms. 
   This past year Senator Santorum traveled throughout Pennsylvania discussing the importance of our country's energy independence from other countries, particular those with connections to terrorist organizations. He has also spent a considerable amount of time meeting with constituents about the role Pennsylvania's agriculture community can play in securing our energy independence. 
   "Our country's energy independence is crucial to our national security and I am confident that Pennsylvania's farmers, through projects like the ones we are funding today, can play a pivotal role in making us more secure," said Senator Santorum. "Through the increased use of ethanol, biofuels, and other renewable energy alternatives, our nation can become independent from other nations with oil who assist terrorists who want to destroy our country and everything for which we stand." 
   Earlier this week Senator Santorum cosponsored a Senate resolution that sets an ambitious yet achievable national goal to end our dependence on foreign oil. The resolution, S. Con. Res. 97, establishes that no later than 2025, the agricultural, forestry and working land of the United States should provide from renewable resources not less than 25 percent of the total energy consumed in the United States and continue to produce safe, abundant, and affordable food, feed and fiber. 
   During a recent speech at Penn State's Ag Progress Days, Senator Santorum issued a challenge to Pennsylvania farmers to take a leading role in helping our nation reduce our dependence on foreign oil. 
   Senator Santorum is also in the process of crafting comprehensive energy security legislation that will help move our nation to energy independence by 2025. Advancing investments in research and development of renewable energy sources will be primary components of this endeavor. 
   "Renewable energy opportunities provide exciting energy alternatives and economic opportunity," said Mr. Groves. "These investments are a fine example of USDA Rural Development's commitment to enhance energy independence."
 
 