SEN. SANTORUM HONORS VIETNAM, WORLD WAR II VETERANS WITH MEDALS IN ALTOONA
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today honored two veterans with medals for their service to our country at the James E. Van Zandt VA Medical Center in Altoona. John Gority of Duncansville, PA was honored with the Purple Heart and the Combat Infantry Badge. Ernest Reid was honored posthumously with the Bronze Star Medal; his daughter Ember Reid Madsen of Altoona and other family members were present to receive the medal on his behalf.  
   "I contacted the Senator's office and within less than a week I got a response from the Senator about my father's medals. We are so proud of our father, and Senator Santorum has our undying gratitude. This is very special to our family to be able to honor our father this way and to share the medals with our family is a tremendous thrill; two of my three sisters have driven all the way from Louisiana for this event. This wouldn't have been possible without Senator Santorum's help," said Ember Reid Madsen. 
   Mr. Gority served in the U.S. Army in Vietnam and Mr. Reid served in the U.S. Army in Germany among other locations during World War II. Senator Santorum is committed to seeing that all veterans are appropriately honored for their service to our country. 
   "We can never do enough to show our support and appreciation for our veterans. It is my profound honor to present these distinguished individuals with the recognition and appreciation they deserve in tribute to their honorable service to our country. The freedoms and liberties we cherish so fiercely do not come cheap," said Senator Santorum. "We rely on the men and women who bravely wear the uniforms of our armed forces to risk their own lives and to preserve the life we are able to have. These medals are a symbolic gesture of gratitude from a grateful nation for the years of dedicated and vigilant service." 
   Prior to the medals presentation in Altoona, Senator Santorum met with officials from the Pennsylvania Highlands Community College in Johnstown. 
   "I am pleased that $500,000 in federal funding has been passed through the Senate Committee approval process and I am hopeful that the funding will receive full Congressional approval in the near future," said Senator Santorum. "Community colleges like Pennsylvania Highlands play a crucial role in providing individuals with technical and skill training for quality jobs." 
   College President, Dr. Anna D. Weitz said, "We greatly appreciate Senator Santorum's support for our efforts to develop a first class technology-based community college facility serving our entire region. This project is an investment in workforce training for the residents of our area that will continue to pay dividends as we prepare students for the good jobs that continue to be developed here." 
   Pennsylvania Highlands Community College, formerly named Cambria County Area Community College, is a public institution offering over 30 different Associate Degree, Diploma and Certificate programs. The College's mission emphasizes quality, affordable, education in a supportive environment. Pennsylvania Highlands is accredited by the Commission on Higher Education of the Middle States Association of Colleges and Schools.
 
 