SEN. SANTORUM THROWS OUT FIRST PITCH AT WILLIAMSPORT CROSSCUTTERS' GAME
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today threw out the first pitch of the Williamsport Crosscutters' game versus the State College Spikes as part of the Susquehanna Valley Health System's Pack the Park night at Historic Bowman Field. Prior to the start of the game Sen. Santorum joined Steven P. Johnson, President and CEO of Susquehanna Health Systems, and Sister Joanne Bednar, President of Providence Health System Foundation and Vice Chairman of Susquehanna Health System's Board of Directors, at a press conference to celebrate Sen. Santorum's efforts to ensure fairer Medicare reimbursement for The Williamsport Hospital & Medical Center.  
   "Tonight is a great night for a ballgame and I am honored to throw out the first pitch. It's also a great night for Williamsport Hospital; I am thrilled that my efforts on behalf of Williamsport Hospital and the community it serves have resulted in this critical development," said Senator Santorum. "The new, fairer reimbursement for the hospital will assure access to high quality and cost-effective care to citizens from Williamsport, Lycoming County and the surrounding rural areas. While I am pleased to deliver this good news, I also look forward to continuing to work with Williamsport to ensure a permanent solution." 
   The Senator was able to help secure nearly $1 million in special grants for the upcoming year and $2.5 million in special one-time Medicare reimbursement adjustments, and is committed to working with Williamsport Hospital to successfully achieve a permanent solution. 
   Mr. Steven P. Johnson, President and CEO of Susquehanna Health, Williamsport Hospital's parent organization, noted "While we are disappointed with Medicare's decision not to provide a permanent solution, we are extremely grateful for the tremendous support from Senator Santorum. The Senator's tireless efforts on behalf of our community and our patients are a wonderful example of an elected official acting as a true statesman and leader. We look forward to continuing to work with Senator Santorum on a permanent solution for Williamsport Hospital & Medical Center." 
   The Williamsport Hospital & Medical Center has struggled financially due to an unfair Medicare payment policy that compensates competing hospitals nearly 10 percent more for employee wage costs. This disparity cost The Williamsport Hospital & Medical Center approximately $3.5 million per year in lost Medicare reimbursement. Senator Santorum has advocated for a fair and equitable Medicare reimbursement for Williamsport Hospital. He has facilitated meetings with officials from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), written several letters to CMS officials and made numerous calls to CMS, the Department of Health and Human Services, the Office of Management and Budget, and the White House on behalf of his constituents - the employees and patients who rely on the quality care delivered by The Williamsport Hospital & Medical Center. 
   Senator Santorum serves on the Senate Finance Committee, which has jurisdiction over Medicare. The Senator remains committed to ensuring that Pennsylvania's hospitals receive fair and equitable reimbursement.
 
 