EMPOWERING FAMILIES IN NEED
  Hurricane Katrina, and the flooding of New Orleans, opened the eyes of many Americans to the unfortunate truth that a large percentage of the anti-poverty policies implemented over the past 30 years have been unsuccessful. We need to take a different approach to attacking poverty. I have signed up to do my part, the question is, have the rest of my colleagues in the Republican Party? Simply throwing more money into ineffective programs is not acceptable, which is why, in my role as Republican Conference Chairman, I have spearheaded the development of the Senate Anti-Poverty Agenda to find an alternative way to truly help those who are in need.  
   The centerpiece of this agenda is the CARE Act, which attacks poverty on a number of fronts. America has always been fortunate to have a vibrant community of charitable organizations that are committed to helping those in need. Community and faith-based organizations are on the ground, providing direct assistance in the form of services like family counseling, drug and alcohol rehabilitation, food distribution and so many more. These organizations depend heavily on the contributions of private citizens, and we need to encourage Americans to continue to make these donations. The CARE Act provides a number of incentives that encourage charitable contributions, which in turn will strengthen the organizations that play such a vital role in lifting our citizens out of poverty. This bill was passed by both the Senate and the House in the last Congress, but was derailed by partisan politics. It is important that my colleagues in Congress continue to recognize the importance of this legislation, and once again vote for its passage so that those in need can receive assistance quickly during this season of giving. 
   Another critical aspect of combating poverty is promoting hunger relief. It is easy to regard hunger as an issue that exists elsewhere in the world, but the truth is it continues to be a very real problem for many American families living in poverty and is incredibly oppressive - especially for our children. In response to the immense reconstruction costs resulting from Katrina, Congress has been forced to cut spending in other programs. However, we must be mindful of the impact of our decisions and work to find savings in places that do the least harm. Accordingly, I successfully fought to exclude programs that provide food for low-income individuals (the food stamp program) from any cuts. 
   We've also taken steps to encourage asset building for low-income Americans. Developing real assets is the first step to developing real wealth. The CARE Act provides 900,000 low-income, working Americans the opportunity to build assets through matched savings accounts, called Individual Development Accounts (IDAs). The accounts can be used to go to college, purchase a home, or start a small business. 
   For an example of a program that has been reformed with positive results, one needs to look no further than the welfare system. By failing to give those on welfare any real-world skills along with their checks, the welfare system essentially encouraged a cycle of dependency rather than empowering recipients with a chance to improve their lives. 
   Since I authored the landmark welfare reform bill that was signed into law in 1996, the results have been remarkable. Welfare caseloads have been cut in m half. More than seven million individuals, and two million families, have exchanged a welfare check for a paycheck. By no means is the system perfect, and reform is an ongoing process. But we have given the system a strong base, and by passing legislation that provides tax incentives for employers to hire welfare participants, strengthening the work requirements, and promoting the importance of marriage and fatherhood in reducing poverty, the welfare system can become an even more effective tool for combating poverty nationwide. 
   These programs are just some of the highlights of all that Republicans have been doing to decrease the prevalence of poverty in America. Recently, I introduced a number of amendments designed to promote healthy families and responsible fatherhood, which studies show have a dramatic effect on limiting the existence of poverty. For example, children who live absent their fathers are an average five times more likely to use drugs, to experience educational health, emotional, or behavioral problems, and to engage in criminal behavior. And we have expanded the opportunities available to community and faith-based organizations to help meet the needs in our communities. 
   As a member of the United States Senate, I have a responsibility to give all Americans the opportunity to improve their lot in life, and nothing is more central to this than reducing poverty in our nation. Therefore, I will do everything in my power to ensure that programs designed to attack the destitution and hardship that far too many Americans endure are successfully implemented.
 
 