SEN. SANTORUM JOINS YOUTH FOR CHRISTMAS PARTY AT ST. JOHN NEWMAN SCHOOL
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today attended a Christmas party for disadvantaged youth at St. John Newman School in Pittsburgh.  
   "This party was a wonderful opportunity for these children to experience the love and the spirit of Christmas," said Senator Santorum. "For some of these children this may be their only opportunity to enjoy a Christmas celebration. This is what the holiday season represents - sharing what we have with these truly special children, who may not be fortunate to have a lot of presents under the tree or food on the table. I am happy that I could be a part of their Christmas celebration." 
   The American Association of the Sovereign Military Order of Malta - Pittsburgh Area, sponsored the Christmas celebration for nearly 40 kindergarten, first grade and second grade students at St. John Newman School. 
   The Order of Malta is a worldwide organization whose mission is dedicated to defending the faith and serving the sick and the poor. Members are those who are devoted to the exercise of Christian virtue and charity. Today the Order of Malta helped to organize the event so that each child could receive a Christmas present, visit with Santa Claus and hear the story of the history of the Order of Malta. 
   "I would like to express our appreciation to all of our members, who are able to attend our Christmas event for the young children at St. John Newman School," said Jeffrey Ludwikowski, Hospitaller for the Pittsburgh Area of the American Association of the Sovereign Military Order of Malta. "Our members, like Senator Santorum, are all distinguished in their fields and have further demonstrated a commitment and faithful adherence to the doctrines of the Roman Catholic Church. As active participants in business, government, law, medicine and their communities, we recognize that their time is extremely valuable and honor them for their continuing dedication to serve those most in need."
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610. 
 
 