SEN. SANTORUM INTRODUCES S. 333, IRAN FREEDOM, SUPPORT ACT OF 2005
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today introduced S. 333, the Iran Freedom and Support Act of 2005. The Act codifies existing sanctions, controls and regulations in place against Iran; expands the list of entities that can be sanctioned under the Iran-Libya Sanction Act (ILSA); and authorizes $10 million in assistance to pro-democracy groups opposed to the current Iranian regime. 
   "We cannot delay taking action to protect Americans at home and abroad. According to the United States Department of State's Patterns of Global Terrorism 2001 report, Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps and Ministry of Intelligence and Security continued to be involved in the planning and support of terrorist acts and supported a variety of groups that use terrorism to pursue their goals," said Senator Santorum. "This same report has shown that Iran has provided varying amounts of funding, safe haven, training, and weapons to Lebanese Hizballah, HAMAS, and the Palestinian Islamic Jihad."
   Iran has also been linked to attacks against American military personnel in Saudi Arabia at Khobar Towers in 1996, and to al Qaeda attacks against civilians in Saudi Arabia in 2004. If signed into law, the Iran Freedom and Support Act of 2005 will set in place standards that will make it more difficult for the Government of Iran to have access to revenue and foreign investment to support terrorism and the development of weapons of mass destruction. The Act outlines that the sanctions currently imposed by the United States shall remain in place until the President certifies that Iran no longer poses a threat to the United States or its allies. 
   "It is important for our government to send a message of support and solidarity to the efforts by the Iranian people who wish to exercise self-determination over their own form of government," said Senator Santorum. "This Act will provide much needed assistance for pro-democracy groups who are committed to advancing democratic ideals and principles despite living at the hands of a government that views freedom as a threat to their power."
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 