PROTECTING AMERICA'S YOUTH
  As we get older and for many Americans, our families grow, the direction of our lives becomes increasingly shaped by the innate and overwhelming desire to provide our children with the best chance at a happy, healthy, comfortable life. As different children and different families have different needs, this desire can manifest itself in any number of ways. But consistently across America, parents strive to grant our children access to quality education. Education provides children with hope, with options, and with the skills to become productive members of our society. And so parents, rightfully, have long paid close attention to the institutions and individuals that play such an influential role in the development of America's children.  
   America is a lucky nation-countless men and women, dedicated to serving and educating our children, choose to teach, coach, and counsel our students. These are honorable people, members of an eminently honorable profession. As these individuals spend such a significant (both in hours and in importance) amount of time with children, parents often take a healthy interest in who they are. In the past, this interest might involve meeting with those in contact with their children, conversations with students about their experiences, and other such actions. And, often, with qualified and committed individuals in these professions, such interactions are extremely positive. 
   But as recent, horrific events have proven, schools are not always a safe haven for our children. Last year Americans watched in horror as a 9 year-old girl in Florida was abducted, then raped and murdered by a man who previously worked as a contractor at her school. Knowing who is spending time around America's youth is simply too important to treat carelessly. 
   And in truth, there is only so much that a parent can do-meeting a teacher, coach, or counselor gives a parent a limited window into the nature of that person. There are countless other school employees like custodians, groundskeepers, food service providers and others who rarely interact with parents. Parents must trust that the schools and school districts are hiring employees who should truly be responsible for such an important time in the development of our youth. 
   So how can the federal government help? While I firmly believe that the educational system in this country should be controlled at the local level, where the needs of the students are best understood, the federal and state governments can provide valuable resources that assist school districts in protecting their students. 
   Currently, the ability of school districts to obtain accurate, complete background checks on employees is lacking. While states can voluntarily enter a program that gives them access to checks conducted by the FBI, the results only include information provided by other states also in the program. Only 23 states are enrolled in this program, meaning that a school employee coming from one of the 27 remaining states would avoid a complete background check. In Pennsylvania, teacher applicants that are in-state residents do not undergo an FBI background check, effectively excluding any pertinent out of state information. This system has too many gaps, too many loopholes. In order to grant states, upon their request, access to complete FBI background checks, I recently introduced the Schools Safely Acquiring Faculty Excellence (SAFE) Act. 
   The Schools SAFE Act would give school districts access to a nationwide criminal information system that would provide the background information needed to ensure that only qualified individuals work with and around our children. It removes troubling barriers that too often have prevented schools from accessing complete information regarding a potential employee's background. And it acts as a complement to efforts at the state level, where the General Assembly is considering a measure that would require the state police to establish a system to electronically transmit fingerprints to the FBI. Quite simply, the Schools SAFE Act will protect our children. 
   Our children are America's future, our most precious resource. They must be protected-at all costs. For every individual who wishes harm upon our children, there are thousands of professionals who simply want to help them achieve their best. But giving one dangerous employee access to one vulnerable child is beyond unacceptable. School districts, who surely recognize this, need to have every possible resource available to them, and Schools SAFE provides the considerable assets of the FBI. Our children trust us to keep them safe-this bill helps schools ensure that they are.
 
 