SEN. SANTORUM COSPONSORS LEGISLATION TO MODERNIZE MEDICARE COVERAGE FOR PATIENTS SUFFERING WITH KIDNEY FAILURE
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, is an original cosponsor of legislation sponsored by Sen. Kent Conrad (D-ND) that would improve the benefits under the Medicare program for beneficiaries with kidney disease.  
   "End Stage Renal Disease affects over 300,000 Americans, and almost 13,000* Pennsylvanians," said Santorum. "This life threatening disease requires patients to undergo the strenuous and costly treatment of kidney dialysis several times a week." 
   The End Stage Renal Disease (ESRD) Modernization Act (S. 2614) would improve the quality of care for ESRD patients as well as the financial stability of Medicare's ESRD program. Currently, Medicare reimburses dialysis facilities through a prospective payment system (PPS) known as the "composite rate," which pays these providers each time they administer dialysis to a patient. Unlike every other Medicare PPS, however, the composite rate has no automatic annual payment update mechanism to keep dialysis reimbursement in line with the rising costs of providing care. The lack of a payment update mechanism for dialysis providers poses unique issues in terms of patient access to this vital health care service. 
   "This bill aims to fix the dialysis payment system to remedy the inequity by taking into account real changes in prices and inflation, and providing for an annual update to the mechanism," said Santorum. 
   Senator Santorum cosponsored similar modifications during consideration of the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act that would improve the quality of care for many Americans suffering with ESRD. He proposed an amendment that would have established an annual update framework for dialysis providers starting in 2006. Though the Finance Committee did not adopt this amendment, Senator Santorum and Senator Conrad were later successful in passing an amendment that would secure a 1.6 percent increase in the composite rate for each of Fiscal Years (FYs) 2005 and 2006. 
   Senator Santorum joined Senator Conrad, NBA Star Alonzo Mourning and Kidney Care Partners (KCP) this week on Capitol Hill to help introduce the bill and to pledge their support. KCP is a coalition of patient advocacy groups, providers and suppliers committed to improving the lives of those suffering from kidney disease. 
   The End Stage Renal Disease Modernization Act has been referred to the Senate Committee on Finance, where it is pending further action. 
   "As a member of the Finance Committee, which has jurisdiction over Medicare legislation, I am working to pass this important bill that will help hundreds of thousands of Americans living with kidney disease get the proper treatment they need." 
   *United States Renal Data System, 2003 Report.
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 