SEN. SANTORUM ANNOUNCES SENATE REPUBLICAN LEGAL REFORM AGENDA TO END FRIVOLOUS LAWSUITS
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, joined Sens. Arlen Specter (R-PA) and John Cornyn (R-TX), and members of the business and veterans' communities at a press conference today to unveil the Senate Republican Legal Reform Agenda.  
   Today's agenda included a call for reform in the areas of class action, bankruptcy, medical liability and asbestos litigation. Also included in the agenda is the Expanding Charitable and Volunteer Opportunities Act, which was recently introduced by Senator Santorum. The legislation provides commonsense liability protections for individuals and companies who wish to donate to and volunteer for charitable purposes. 
   "Putting an end to frivolous lawsuits is an immediate concern for Senate Republicans as these lawsuits are endangering job creation and fair compensation," said Senator Santorum. "As part of today's agenda, the Expanding Charitable and Volunteer Opportunities Act will help communities in need of assistance find commonsense ways in which the federal government can ease the burden for non-government entities who seek to assist those in need." 
   Senator Santorum continues to meet with doctors and hospital administrators throughout Pennsylvania to discuss the impact that the medical liability crisis has on the quality of health care and the solutions that are available to improve the situation in the Commonwealth. 
   "Pennsylvania is one of the states hardest hit by the medical liability crisis, due in large part to disproportionate jury awards in medical malpractice lawsuits. Something needs to be done now to fix it," said Senator Santorum. "I look forward to working with my colleagues in the United States Senate to enact legislation that can truly help alleviate the burden on well-qualified physicians delivering needed medical services to Pennsylvanians and millions of other Americans."
   Contact: Robert Traynham, 202/224-0610.
 
 