SENS. SANTORUM, SPECTER ANNOUNCE $16 MILLION FOR PENNSYLVANIA FLOOD PROTECTION
  Sens. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, and Arlen Specter (R-PA), a senior member of the U.S. Senate Appropriations Committee, announced today that the House and Senate Conference Committee has approved nearly $16 million in emergency funding for eight flood protection projects in Western Pennsylvania. This funding is contained in the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations bill conference report that is expected to pass the House and Senate early next week.  
   The eight communities that will receive funding include: Brookville (Jefferson County); Burgettstown (Washington County); the James G. Fulton Project, Chartiers Creek (Allegheny); Meyersdale (Somerset County); Millvale (Allegheny County); Sykesville (Jefferson County); Tarentum (Allegheny County); and Turtle Creek (Allegheny County). 
   "I am pleased my colleagues in Congress have restored this essential funding for Western Pennsylvania," Senator Specter said. "Communities will now be able to reconstruct or repair these important flood protection projects, ensuring adequate flood protection in the region." 
   "I am pleased to see this funding restored to Pennsylvania. The nearly sixteen million dollars for crucial flood protection projects is going to help prevent millions more in flood damage in the future," said Senator Santorum. "In the wake of Hurricane Katrina, I along with my colleagues in the Senate supported the difficult decision to shift emergency funding to the recovery efforts on the Gulf Coast. However, Senator Specter and I did not forget how important this funding is to our own state, especially with the many storms that annually cause flooding throughout the Commonwealth." 
   Restoring the funding for these eight flood protection projects is vital to the region's flood protection and disaster planning; Hurricane Ivan damaged these projects in 2004. Then, following the hurricanes in the Gulf Coast region, the funding for these PA projects was diverted to aid the recovery efforts. 
   In March, Senators Specter and Santorum wrote a letter to the Senate Appropriations Chairman, Senator Thad Cochran, asking that the funding for these at-risk flood communities be restored. Additionally, Senators Specter and Santorum worked with Representatives Melissa Hart, Tim Murphy, John Peterson, and Mike Doyle to ensure this important funding was restored.
 
 