SEN. SANTORUM TO HOST 5TH ANNUAL HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES CONGRESSIONAL FORUM
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, will host the 5th Annual Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) Congressional Forum in Washington, D.C. on June 8 and 9, 2004. Santorum will be joined by the presidents from two of the oldest HBCUs in the country - Major General Wallace Arnold of Cheyney University and Dr. Ivory Nelson of Lincoln University; both schools are located in Pennsylvania. "Historically Black Colleges and Universities continue to play a vital role in preparing our future leaders. With participation from over 75 HBCUs from all over the country, lawmakers will be able to learn more about the unique needs of HBCUs," said Santorum. "I am excited about my role this year in supporting their vision to enhance the access and opportunities for all Americans."  
   The 5th Annual HBCUs Congressional Forum will provide institutions the opportunity to learn more about what the federal government can do to help HBCUs achieve their goals, and increase their capacity to meet research, academic and faculty development needs. The forum will also serve as a catalyst for the college presidents to learn more about pending legislation that will strengthen the HBCUs' capacity building initiatives. 
   Former Representative J.C. Watts (R-Okla.) established the congressional forum five years ago. Senator Santorum has represented the Senate at the forum every year. When Watts retired from Congress in 2003, he handed the reins of Chairman over to Senator Santorum because of his dedication and commitment to the forum. 
   "Over the past two years, Senator Rick Santorum and Speaker Dennis Hastert have partnered with the HBCU community to ensure that resources and programs are appropriately directed to our nation's black colleges and universities. Senator Santorum has taken up the mantle since I retired from Congress, joining the presidents of the HBCU community to ensure greater public and private partnerships," said former Representative J.C. Watts. "Senator Santorum is a close friend and a true visionary. He has been a leader in every major policy initiative to increase opportunities for all Americans, particularly those in underserved communities. His commitment to the HBCU community has been invaluable, and I look forward to his continued role as we build upon the HBCU initiative that we started five years ago." 
   In addition, the HBCU Congressional Forum will provide interactive discussions on the re-authorization of the Higher Education Act, funding sources for comprehensive projects to improve the teaching of science and engineering, and a session on legislative resources available to HBCUs. 
   Since the beginning of the 108th Congress, Republicans have created a monthly African American leadership meeting; held an African American Leadership Summit for more than 350 prominent black leaders from across the country; passed the Global HIV/AIDS bill to help 12 nations in sub-Saharan Africa and two Caribbean nations, Haiti and Guyana; sponsored legislation for the creation of a National Museum of African American History and Culture; and secured $955,000 in funds to restore the Historic Frederick Douglass House in Washington, D.C. 
   The HBCUs Congressional Forum is one of several initiatives Congressional GOP leaders are working on in an effort to build better bridges and strengthen partnerships within the African American community. 
   "I am confident that our efforts in partnership with the African American community will lead to more jobs, better access to a quality education and will strengthen faith and families through tax cuts and charitable giving," said Senator Santorum.
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 