SENS. SANTORUM, SPECTER ANNOUNCE EXTENSION OF STEEL IMPORT PROGRAM
  Sens. Rick Santorum, Chairman of the Republican Conference and member of the Senate Steel Caucus, and Arlen Specter, Chairman of the Senate Steel Caucus, announced today that the Department of Commerce will extend the Steel Import Monitoring and Analysis System (SIMA) through March 21, 2009 and will expand the system to include all basic steel mill products.  
   "After speaking with Secretary of Commerce Luis Gutierrez this morning, I've been informed that the Administration will be moving forward to extend the Steel Import Monitoring System that reflects the needs of domestic steel producers," Santorum said. "I'm very pleased that my discussions with the Department of Commerce have been successful in conveying the importance of this system to Pennsylvania steel producers, and that President Bush will renew and strengthen this important monitoring program." 
   "With the expiration of the tariffs in December 2003, the monitoring system was put in place to ensure that domestic steel manufacturers could compete with foreign importers who subsidize and dump," Senator Specter said. "The extension and expansion of the SIMA program was essential for the steel industry, and I am pleased that the Department of Commerce has recognized its importance and granted its renewal." 
   The SIMA program monitors all steel imports by type and provides the timeliest data on changes in market conditions affecting imports and production, allowing the domestic steel industry to quickly adapt. The program, which was set to expire on March 20, 2005, will also expand the licensing system to include all major steel product categories such as wire rod, heavy structural beams, oil country tubular goods, and stainless steel sheet and strip. 
   The Congressional Steel Caucus identified the extension of the SIMA program as one of its highest priorities this year. To that end, Senators Specter and Santorum joined in a letter to Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez on February 3, 2005 to stress the importance of extending the program. Senators Specter and Santorum are also cosponsors of S. 358, a bill to maintain and expand the steel import licensing and monitoring program.
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 