SEN. SANTORUM INTRODUCES LEGISLATION TO HELP SMALL BUSINESSES SUCCEED
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today introduced the Second-Stage Small Business Development Act of 2006, which will create opportunities for small businesses to overcome challenges and continue to be successful. 
   "Small businesses embody the promise of the American dream - the opportunity for a hard-working individual to turn his or her ideas into a successful, profitable enterprise," said Senator Santorum. "The Second-Stage Small Business Development Act of 2006 will ensure that second-stage small businesses have access to the assistance they need to build on their success."
   The Second-Stage Small Business Development Act of 2006 establishes a four-year pilot grant program to coordinate peer learning opportunities for second-stage small businesses. The bill utilizes the existing small business development center (SBDC) infrastructure to help address an unmet need within the small business community by linking small businesses that are facing an operational challenge that threatens to slow their growth with peers that have overcome similar obstacles in their development.
   "On behalf of the thousands of small firms that we help to grow each year, we are grateful for Senator Santorum's leadership in working to provide resources that will help many of these companies realize their potential, and increase their sales and employment," comments Gregory L. Higgins, Jr., state director of the Pennsylvania Small Business Development Centers network. "The types of companies that will benefit from this bill introduced by Senator Santorum will have a significant impact on the economy of Pennsylvania and its 2,566 communities."
   The Second-Stage Small Business Development Act of 2006 is based on the philosophy that second-stage companies learn more from their peers than other educational training. Having surpassed the startup stage, second-stage small businesses face unique challenges, and overcoming such obstacles has proven to be easier with assistance from other second-stage small businesses. By facilitating successful peer-to-peer counseling for second-stage small businesses the Second-Stage Small Business Development Act will help entrepreneurs across our nation sustain their vitality.
 
 