'ON VETERANS DAY, WE HONOR AMERICA'S HEROES, PAST AND PRESENT'
  The men and women who serve and who have served in America's Armed Forces are our nation's true heroes. These heroes-soldiers, sailors, airmen, and marines who selflessly dedicated their lives to protect our freedoms and liberties-are testaments to sacrifice and courage. These brave Americans-ordinary people thrust into extraordinary circumstances-deserve recognition for their heroic service to our country.  
   This week, as many of our sons, daughters, neighbors, and friends continue to serve in Iraq and Afghanistan to ensure our safety and security here at home, we have the opportunity to honor those who have served. Our veterans, past, present, and future, are an indispensable part of what makes our country the greatest nation in the world. It is with deepest respect that I thank our veterans for their patriotism and heroism and for teaching us about sacrifice, fortitude, and valor. 
   Those generations of Pennsylvanians who have experienced war understand what it means to fight to protect our freedoms. Recently, with military battles in Afghanistan and Iraq, we were reminded, that the liberty and prosperity we enjoy as Americans comes at a high price. 
   We live in a unique time. Threats to our nation have a new face, and are no longer simply disguised as fascism, communism, and anarchy. The current war on terrorism and the changing threats of the 21st century have changed our understanding of modern warfare and the need to protect our cities and our citizens. Our soldiers are being called upon to prepare for the realities of a new security paradigm and a new kind of combat. It is essential that Congress provide our military with the resources to equip and train our soldiers to counter the world's growing non-traditional threats. 
   Service to our country has entitled veterans to unique benefits that are available to no other single group of Americans. I am pleased that funding for veterans' health care has significantly increased during my time in the Senate. Specifically since 1998, VA medical care has increased by $11 billion, and since 2001, it has increased by $7.3 billion, or 34 percent. The Fiscal Year (FY) 2005 Budget Resolution that was recently passed by the Senate includes $29.1 billion for veterans' health care, an increase of $1.4 billion, or 5 percent over FY 2004. 
   As a past member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, I have reviewed many areas of concern to veterans. The care and medical treatment of our nation's veterans and the efforts to improve their health care delivery system remain important to me. I was born and raised on the grounds of a Department of Veterans Affairs facility, and I believe that Congress has a special obligation to our nation's veterans. I will continue to work to make sure that our nation's veterans have access to quality health care. 
   Pennsylvania is proud to have more than 1.2 million veterans. Please join with me today in thanking all of our nation's heroes for their courage, dedication, and admirable responsibility of protecting the freedoms we so often take for granted.
 
 