SEN. SANTORUM HIGHLIGHTS EFFORTS OF U.S. ARMED FORCES SERVING IN IRAQ
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today held a press conference to highlight the individual efforts of our servicemen and women in Iraq. Sen. Santorum also announced that the Senate passed an amendment requesting that the Department of Defense and military services provide Members of Congress with notices of accomplishments of their constituents in the military.  
   Senator Santorum joined four independent civilian military bloggers at today's press conference. The military bloggers shared firsthand accounts of the efforts of U.S. Armed Forces in fighting the Global War on Terror and protecting the homeland. 
   "I greatly appreciate the work that the bloggers are doing to communicate the messages from our service men and women who are reporting very positive stories out of Iraq," said Senator Santorum. 
   The following bloggers shared their stories with Senator Santorum:
  * Michael Yon, independent civilian military blogger, http://michaelyon.blogspot.com/ 
   * Bill Roggio, independent civilian military blogger, http://www.billroggio.com/ 
   * Steve Schippert, independent civilian military blogger, http://wordunheard.com 
   * Andi Carol, independent civilian military blogger, http://andisworld.typepad.com/ 
   Senator Santorum also gave a brief presentation of unique Senate features available on the Senate Republican Conference's website http://src.senate.gov that will highlight stories and narratives of our men and women in uniform serving in Iraq. 
   "I am hopeful that our efforts to communicate the efforts of individual service members to the American people will be successful and enable us to continue supporting our service men and women as they selflessly serve our nation," said Senator Santorum. 
   Senator Santorum was pleased to announce that an amendment expressing the sense of the Senate that the Department of Defense and the military services should provide Members of Congress with notices of the military accomplishments of their constituents in the military. 
   "I appreciate my Senate colleagues joining me in supporting this amendment," said Senator Santorum. "It is important that we are made aware of these accomplishments so we can properly honor and thank these brave men and women for their extraordinary service to our country." 
   The amendment (SA 2470) was passed by the Senate during consideration of S. 1042, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2006.
   Contact: Robert Traynham, 202/224-0610.
 
 