SENS. SANTORUM, SPECTER ANNOUNCE 'COPS' GRANTS TO INCREASE SAFETY AT PENNSYLVANIA SCHOOLS
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, and Sen.  
 Arlen Specter (R-PA), the senior Sen. from Pennsylvania, announced today that the U.S. Department of Justice's Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) has awarded $119,184 in grants for three Pennsylvania locations to enhance school safety. 
   "Violence is not an issue students should have to contend with while aiming to obtain their education," Senator Specter said. "These enhanced safety measures are an important step in creating conducive learning environments for students within our Pennsylvania schools." 
   "Equipping our schools with much needed safety improvements and effective training is a small price to pay for helping to ensure the security and protection of our communities," said Senator Santorum. "Using every available resource to fight crime is good for our families and communities." 
   The funding is part of COPS' Secure Our Schools Initiative, which helps to cover the cost of security measures including the placement and use of metal detectors, locks, lighting, and other deterrent measures; security training for students and personnel; coordination with local law enforcement; and other measures to increase school security. 
   COPS has invested nearly $890 million in America's schools through programs like COPS in Schools, School-Based Partnerships, and Safe Schools Initiative. In 2002, COPS expanded its range of programs to include Secure Our Schools. Last year, Secure Our Schools distributed nearly $15 million to help schools in 187 jurisdictions with high-risk areas. 
   The following towns in Pennsylvania have received funding through Secure Our Schools: 
   * $99,345 for the Borough of Phoenixville. 
  * $17,839 for the Township of Lower Makefield. 
  * $2,000 for the Borough of Millersville.
   Contact: Robert Trayham, 202/224-0610; Scott Hoeflich, 202/224-9020.
 
 