SEN. SANTORUM DISCUSSES LAND CONSERVATION IN BEAVER COUNTY; DELIVERS $4.2 MILLION OF FEDERAL FUND
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today met with farmers, local agriculture leaders and members of the National Cattleman's Beef Association and Natural Resource Conservation Service of USDA to discuss the importance of conservation practices.  
   "The conservation of rural land is an important step in preserving our heritage and in keeping us in the forefront of agriculture production," said Senator Santorum. "I was one of the lead architects of the Federal Farmland Protection Program that has received more than $600 million dollars to preserve farmland, including thirteen thousand acres in our state, with another six thousand acres in the process of enrolling. As a member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture I will continue to fight to save open space and precious farmland from urban sprawl." 
   Senator Santorum expressed concern that efforts to limit fair value tax deductions will negatively impact land conservation, and he discussed the 2007 Farm Bill. The farm conservation workshop was hosted at McElhaney Farms in Hookstown, Beaver County. 
   Following the conservation workshop Senator Santorum traveled to Lawrence County where he met with New Castle Mayor Wayne Alexander and Police Chief Tom Sansone to discuss recent progress in the continuing war against drug-related crimes. 
   While in Lawrence County, Senator Santorum delivered $740,000 of federal funding to the New Castle Area Transit Authority for the replacement of old buses. Senator Santorum worked to include the funding in the Safe, Accountable, Flexible and Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (SAFETEA-LU), a transportation funding bill which reauthorizes federal funding for surface transportation programs through fiscal year 2009. SAFETEA-LU also provides a federal funding formula on which states receive a return on money paid in federal gasoline taxes. 
   "Through my leadership position as Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, I fought to keep Pennsylvania a donee state under the bill's formula, which means the Commonwealth will receive more from the Highway Trust Fund than it contributes," said Senator Santorum. "The previous version of the bill, considered in the 108th Congress, made Pennsylvania a donor state with a rate of return of $.97 for every dollar it paid into the fund. The SAFETEA-LU bill I helped to pass ensures our state will never receive less than $1.13 for every dollar contributed." 
   After delivering federal funding to Lawrence County Senator Santorum stopped in Butler County to deliver more federal funding from the SAFETEA-LU bill for public transportation for Cranberry Area Transit. U.S. Representative Melissa Hart (R-PA-04), Cranberry Municipal Officials, Butler County Commissioners, and Butler Township-City Joint Municipal Transit Authority staff joined Senator Santorum for the funding announcement. 
   "Public transportation is an important investment and with the $3.5 million of federal funding Representative Hart and I delivered here today I hope to see Butler County expand their public transportation infrastructure," said Senator Santorum. "Improving our public transportation system is a crucial part of our ongoing efforts to encourage Pennsylvanians to conserve resources." 
   "As the Cranberry area continues to grow, so does the need for reliable public transportation in Butler County," said Representative Hart. "I'm pleased to have worked with Senator Santorum to secure the necessary funds to continue to meet this goal."
   Contact: Robert Traynham, 202/224-0610.
 
 