SEN. SANTORUM MAKES STATEMENT FOLLOWING RULING ON PARTIAL BIRTH ABORTION BAN ACT BY U.S. DISTRICT COURT IN NEBRASKA
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, issued the following statement on U.S. District Judge Richard Kopf's ruling on the Partial Birth Abortion Ban Act of 2003: "In Nebraska today, U.S. District Court Judge Richard Kopf ruled the Partial Birth Abortion Ban Act of 2003 unconstitutional because it does not include a health exception for the woman.  
   "This final district court ruling is not surprising given previous decisions by the Supreme Court, and the ruling in San Francisco earlier this summer. In June, San Francisco U.S. District Court Judge Phyllis Hamilton granted a permanent injunction against the Partial Birth Abortion Ban Act of 2003. 
   "I fully expect the Justice Department to appeal today's Nebraska ruling to the U.S. Supreme Court, as it has the San Francisco ruling on the Partial Birth Abortion Ban Act of 2003. 
   "In Congress, we restructured the law to address the concerns raised by the U.S. Supreme Court decision Stenberg v. Carhart in 2000, which struck down the Nebraska statute banning partial birth abortion. The Partial Birth Abortion Ban Act of 2003 provides a more precise definition of the procedure and includes factual findings of Congress, which show that a partial-birth abortion has never been shown to be medically necessary to preserve a woman's health. The law does contain an exception to preserve the life of the mother. 
   "The New York District Court ruling on the Partial Birth Abortion Ban Act of 2003 that came down last month deferred to the Stenberg Supreme Court decision, but confirmed that in no case 'could the Plaintiffs point to a specific patient or actual circumstance' in which partial birth abortion was 'necessary to protect a woman's health.' Judge Richard Casey also substantiated what Congress established - that partial birth abortion is a 'gruesome, brutal, barbaric, and uncivilized medical procedure' - and that there is credible evidence that partial birth abortions subject fetuses to severe pain. 
   "The Partial Birth Abortion Ban Act, passed overwhelmingly by the Congress and signed into law by President Bush in November of 2003, is a true act of compassion and bans a hideous procedure that has never been shown to be medically necessary to protect a woman's health. "I stand by my belief that this is a constitutional act. I know the Department of Justice will continue to work hard to defend this law and preserve and protect innocent life."
   Contact: Christine Shott, 202/224-0610.
 
 