SEN. SANTORUM ANNOUNCES BRAC COMMISSION DECISION TO LEAVE EIGHT C-130'S IN PITTSBURGH
  Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today held a press conference in Pittsburgh to announce the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission's decision to retain the C-130 aircraft at Pittsburgh International Airport (IAP) Air Reserve Station (ARS), and its recommendation to establish an enclave and a Regional Joint Readiness Center at Pittsburgh IAP ARS. The action taken by the BRAC Commission follows actions by Sens. Santorum and Specter and Governor Rendell urging the Commission to include language in its final report that would urge the Department of Defense to permanently locate and operate an optimum number of C-130 aircraft as a detachment to the Pittsburgh IAP ARS enclave.  
   "I am thrilled that the BRAC Commission agreed to retain the eight C-130s at Pittsburgh," said Senator Santorum. "Additionally, I am pleased that the BRAC Commission has recommended that DoD establish a Regional Joint Readiness Center at the base which will bring endless opportunities to southwestern Pennsylvania. This is a huge victory for Pittsburgh, and I thank Senator Specter and Governor Rendell for their hard work in this effort." 
   "The Commission clearly saw the advantages of both the highly qualified personnel at the 911th Airlift Wing and the important missions they conduct," said Senator Santorum. "It is also important to note that the BRAC Commission has included language in their final report that provides a potential for even more aircraft to be located and operated at Pittsburgh IAP ARS. This is a major win and I am pleased that I was able to play a role." 
   The BRAC Commission in its findings stated, "Rather than closing Pittsburgh IAP ARS, the Commission determined that it should be realigned as an enclave on which a Regional Joint Readiness Center would be established. Since the Commission retained C-130 Aircraft at Pittsburgh, the Commission urges that the Department of Defense take affirmative action to identify and permanently locate and operate an optimum number of C-130 aircraft as a detachment to the Pittsburgh IAP ARS enclave in order that it may support the mission of the Regional Joint Readiness Center as well as a current Air Force Reserve Command missions." 
   As a result of Senator Santorum's leadership position in the U.S. Senate, he has been able to play an important role during the BRAC process and has been working with Senator Specter and, in a bipartisan fashion with Governor Rendell, and other Pennsylvania leaders to save the planes at the 911th Airlift Wing. 
   Additionally, while the BRAC Commission upheld Secretary Rumsfeld's recommendation to reassign aircraft from the 111th Air National Guard Fighter Wing, it did acknowledge the valuable service provided by the unity and did agree with Senators Santorum and Specter and Governor Rendell in urging DoD to maintain aircraft within the unit. 
   In its findings the BRAC Commission states, "The Commission encourages the Department of Defense to not retire service-capable A-10 aircraft. The Commission notes the quality and contributions of the 111th Fighter Wing and encourages the Department of Defense to consider identifying A-10 aircraft to form an A-10 wing or detachment using the 111th Fighter Wing of the Air National Guard located at Willow Grove, PA."
   Contact: Robert Trayham, 202/224-0610; Scott Hoeflich, 202/224-9020.
 
 