SEN. MCCONNELL ISSUES STATEMENT ON TAX RELIEF EXTENSION RECONCILIATION ACT
  U.S. Senate Majority Whip Mitch McConnell made the following remarks today on the Senate floor prior to the vote on the Tax Relief Extension Reconciliation Conference Report:  
   "Mr. President, in spite of unprecedented shocks to our economy - terrorist attacks, corporate accounting scandals, rising energy prices, and natural disasters - our economy is incredibly strong. 
   "This is not by accident; it is a by-product of policies proposed by President Bush and the Republican Congress that encourage Americans to work hard, keep more of their own money and invest in the economy. 
   "Let's just look at the facts. One of the most important components of this Tax Increase Prevention Act that Congress initially passed in May 2003 was the tax relief on Capital Gains and Dividends. Since enactment of that important tax reduction measure in 2003, we have seen remarkable economic growth and job creation. 
   "More Americans are working than ever before - the economy has created over 5.2 million jobs since August, 2003. Since then, we have witnessed 32 straight months of job growth. 
   "Unemployment remains low at 4.7 percent. In fact, it is lower than the average of the unemployment rate of the 1960's, the 1970's, and the 1980's. It is even lower than the 1990's, which our Democratic colleagues would have you believe is the golden period of economic progress. 
   "From the time since the tax cuts to the beginning of this year, the latest period for which we have numbers, America has created more jobs than the European Union-15 and Japan combined. 
   "Economic growth is strong. The economy grew at 4.8 percent in the 1st Quarter of 2006. 
   "Americans are willing to invest more because they will be able to keep more of these earnings. The stock market is up more than 3,100 points since May 2003, from 8,454 on May 1, 2003 to 11,639 on May 10, 2006 - nearly a 37 percent increase. That's not just good news to Wall Street, but really good news to folks with pensions and savings on Main Street. 
   "Americans have more money in their pocket. Real, after-tax income is up 8.2 percent since President Bush took office. Over the past year, it is up 2.2 percent. 
   "Consumer confidence hit a 4-year high in April. We cut the tax rate on capital gains and tax revenues from capital gains taxes have increased from $58 billion in 2002 to $78 billion in 2005. 
   "Tax collections are up 14 percent over the past 12 months - even though we have reduced taxes. 
   "Mr. President, we must never forget: government does not create growth. Entrepreneurs, risk-takers, and hard working Americans create growth. However, government - through its tax, spending, and regulatory policies obviously can establish an environment that strangles growth or allows it to flourish. 
   "That is what this body has done by lowering taxes in 2003. These policies have been a resounding success and the Senate clearly needs to extend them. We must reject the attempts from the other side of the aisle to reverse this course and increase taxes by $70 billion on the American people."
 
 