SEN. MCCONNELL'S VETERANS DAY 2007 COLUMN
  As America celebrates Veterans Day this year, it's worth remembering why we celebrate on November 11--and that among the more than 25 million veterans in our country today, there are a very special few who still remember what happened on that date. 
   Veterans Day was originally called Armistice Day, and was established in 1919 by President Woodrow Wilson to commemorate the armistice between the victorious Allies and the defeated Central Powers that ended World War I on November 11, 1918.  
   At the time, the "War to End All Wars" was the greatest conflict the United States had ever undertaken. Nearly five million Americans worldwide wore their country's uniform during the conflict. More than 50,000 were killed in action, and another 60,000 died of war-related causes, often illnesses. 
   The rest came home after the fighting ended, lived through the Roaring Twenties and the Great Depression, and parented the Greatest Generation that would go on to fight World War II. 
   World War I has nearly slipped out of America's living memory--but not completely. America's oldest veterans still remember the War to End All Wars, and as we celebrate Veterans Day this year we also honor those veterans of World War I. 
   The U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs estimates the number of World War I veterans alive today can be counted on one hand. As recently as last year, that number was 13. And a generation ago, in 1974, the Veterans of World War I of the USA organization still had a quarter-million members. 
   Kentucky has its own World War I-era veteran, a friend of mine named Robley Rex. At 106 years old, he is the Commonwealth's oldest known veteran according to the state Department of Veterans Affairs. Born in 1901 in Christian County, Robley enlisted in the 28th Infantry Division and was stationed in Germany. 
   After leaving the Army in 1922, he came to Louisville and became a postal worker and an ordained Methodist minister. Although more than eight decades have passed since he saw active duty, for many years Robley continued to serve his fellow soldiers by volunteering at the Louisville Veterans Affairs Medical Center. 
   He delivered mail and medical records, and visited with other veterans--every one of them younger than he is. The Veterans of Foreign Wars honored Robley for performing more than 13,600 hours of service in 20 years. 
   I'm grateful for Robley Rex's continued service, and for the service of every Kentuckian who has sacrificed for his country by joining the armed forces. As a Senator, I've had the honor of meeting many of the young men and women who have fought in the ongoing War on Terror. Their courage is just as inspiring as that of Americans from generations past. 
   Even if you're not lucky enough to know Robley, nearly every Kentuckian knows a veteran, whether they served in war or peacetime. Kentucky's 367,000 veterans and their families make up a quarter of our Commonwealth's population. 
   There is no greater sacrifice Americans can make for their country than to wear its uniform and defend its ideals. Kentuckians have borne this burden in astounding numbers. So this Veterans Day, find a veteran and say you're grateful for his or her service. Every one of them gave up something, and Veterans Day is the chance to thank them for that. 
   Senator McConnell is the Senate Republican Leader and only the second Kentuckian to lead his party in the U.S. Senate.
 
 