SEN. MCCONNELL ANNOUNCES FINAL APPROVAL OF BUYOUT FOR TOBACCO FARMERS
  Sen. Mitch McConnell (R-KY) announced today that the buyout he helped secure for tobacco quota owners and growers has passed the Senate and is now on its way to President Bush for his signature. Sen. McConnell drafted and was instrumental in negotiating the final buyout language, which was included in the Conference Report to H.R. 4520.  
   The buyout provides payments of $7 per pound to quota holders and $3 per pound to growers. The payments, based on the 2002 quota level, would be distributed over a ten-year period. The funds required will be obtained from manufacturers and importers of all tobacco products sold in the United States and will total $10.14 Billion. Of that amount, Kentucky tobacco quota holders and growers are expected to receive nearly $2.5 Billion. 
   "This is a historic day for Kentucky's tobacco farmers and their families," said McConnell. "Securing the buyout took a lot of hard work by me, my staff and several members of the delegation. Our farmers need and deserve this buyout, and I'm glad to have helped make it happen." 
   McConnell has led the fight in securing a buyout for Kentucky's tobacco growers for several years. In 1998, Senator McConnell was the first to propose a buyout of the tobacco program, but this measure failed due to a lack of support from grower groups and a lack of consensus among elected representatives from tobacco producing states. 
   Since McConnell's effort in 1998, the decline of production has imposed severe economic hardships on tobacco producing communities. While manufacturing needs have only declined slightly, production quotas have been reduced by nearly 50% and have continued to drop. Between 1997 and 2002, the number of tobacco farms in Kentucky fell from 46,850 to 29,237, a 38% drop in just 5 years. 
   On July 30, 2003, Senator McConnell made another attempt and introduced a buyout proposal for tobacco quota owners and growers. "The Tobacco Market Transition Act of 2003" was supported by every senator from the six leading tobacco-producing states. This measure served as the basis for what was passed by the Senate today. 
   Earlier this year, Senator McConnell led the efforts to get the tobacco buyout included in H.R. 4520. The Senate buyout language, drafted by McConnell, was approved on July 15, 2004. On October 6, 2004, the House/Senate Conference Committee, of which McConnell was a member, approved the buyout language; the House approved it on October 7 and the Senate on October 11. The buyout is now on its way to the President for his signature. 
   "Due to a continued decline in quota and a decrease in consumption, tobacco growers and quota holders knew they were facing an economic disaster without the passage of a tobacco buyout," said McConnell. "I understand the realities facing our tobacco farm families and that's why I took action before it was too late."
 
 