SEN. MCCONNELL ISSUES STATEMENT REGARDING PASSAGE OF FISA LEGISLATION
  U.S. Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell delivered the following remarks on the Senate floor Tuesday regarding final passage of the FISA legislation and the need for the House to quickly pass the legislation before the Protect America Act expires at the end of the week:  
   "Earlier today the Senate voted to invoke cloture on the bipartisan, Rockefeller-Bond bill. This wasn't a close vote-rather, it was a strong, bipartisan show of support for this important legislation. 
   "The Protect America Act expires at the end of this week-Saturday, February 16. 
   "Twenty-one House Democrats have written Speaker Pelosi saying they 'fully support' the Rockefeller-Bond bill if it is not changed substantially-and it was not- and they urge her to 'quickly consider' this bill in order 'to get a bill signed into law before the Protect America Act expires in February.' 
   "I ask unanimous consent that this letter appear in the record at the conclusion of my brief remarks. 
   "It is clear that not only does the Rockefeller-Bond bill enjoy bipartisan, majority support in the Senate; it enjoys bipartisan, majority support in the House. 
   "It is a bill that protects the country. It is a bill that will be signed into law. We need to focus on completing action on this legislation and get it to the President before the Protect America Act expires. 
   "As to further delays: In August, my Democratic colleagues said that an additional six months was needed to get this right. In the fall, they said we need just a little more time. Last month, they said give us another 15 days and we can wrap this thing up. At this point no member of this body can reasonably state that this piece of legislation was hastily or unfairly considered. 
   "We do not need yet another extension, yet another delay. We need to focus on getting our work done. I am confident that with the help of our friends on the other side of the aisle, we can get a second bipartisan accomplishment to the President in as many weeks. 
   "I encourage my colleagues in the House and Senate to redouble their efforts to this end. That would show the American people that Congress can function on a bipartisan basis."
 
 