SEN. MCCONNELL COMMENTS ON INTERIM BENCHMARKS REPORT
  U.S. Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell made the following remarks (as prepared) on the Senate floor Thursday regarding the interim benchmarks report released today.  
   "We knew when the Senate passed the conference report that, according to this legislation, we were requiring a benchmarks report in July and a benchmarks report in September. 
   "Why were these dates important? First, we knew that July was important because the Baghdad security plan is now fully manned, something that was achieved less than one month ago. 
   "Congress wanted to send a clear signal to the Iraqi government that full cooperation and sacrifice in executing the Baghdad security plan was imperative, and that the hard work of political compromise must begin. 
   "We have done that. 
   "Second, General Petraeus informed the Senate that he and Ambassador Crocker would provide an assessment of the counterinsurgency plan to the President in September. 
   "Having heard that, the Senate thought it reasonable that we would be provided the same assessment, and that we could form a reasoned legislative response to that report. 
   "What have we learned? We've learned that progress is mixed, that many of the military tasks assigned to the military have been achieved, and that we have not seen sufficient progress on the political benchmarks. 
   "The Congress decided in May that one month of a fully manned surge was an insufficient period to call the Petraeus plan a success or failure. Certainly the young soldiers and Marines risking their lives today on the streets of Baghdad and Ramadi would agree -- and they deserve our patience. 
   "Some of our colleagues have quite reasonably refrained from drafting new amendments that would revisit the actions taken by this Senate in May until they have at least reviewed the benchmarks report delivered today. 
   "I would encourage my colleagues to review the report, as I intend to, and to hear what General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker have to say in September. 
   "There is much at stake here. They deserve to be heard."
 
 