SEN. MCCONNELL SECURES OVER $14 MILLION FOR KENTUCKY TRANSPORTATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECTS
  U.S. Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell - a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee - obtained $14.25 million in funding for Kentucky projects in the FY '08 Senate Transportation, Housing and Urban Development and Related Agencies Appropriations bill. The bill now moves to the full Senate for consideration.  
   McConnell used his seniority on the Appropriations Committee to direct funding to the following Kentucky projects: 
   $4 million for the Paducah Waterfront Development Project. "Kentucky communities along the Ohio River are transforming their riverfronts into community gathering places and I am pleased to announce this funding for Paducah," said McConnell. Senator McConnell previously secured $5.3 million for this project. 
   $2 million for the Paducah Area Transit System (PATS). "I am pleased to once again secure funding for PATS because it provides a worthwhile service to area residents," said McConnell. "Additional vehicles and other equipment can now be purchased to help meet the needs of customers." McConnell previously secured $4.4 million for PATS. 
   $2 million for the Murray-Calloway County Industrial Park Development Project. "These funds will be used to help develop a new industrial park," said McConnell. "This worthwhile investment will help create employment opportunities for the citizens of Murray and Calloway County." 
   $5.25 million for the Louisville International Airport of which $3.25 million will be used for a runway widening project and $2 million for the advanced technology development and deployment program. "The runways at the Louisville International Airport need to be widened to accommodate larger aircraft," said McConnell. "Making improvements to the airport is good for Kentucky because it helps the economy." 
   $1 million for the Transit Authority of Northern Kentucky (TANK) in Fort Wright. "These funds will be used by the Transit Authority of Northern Kentucky to replace buses in their fleet," said McConnell. "New buses will help TANK continue to provide reliable service to their many riders." 
   The FY '08 Senate Transportation, Housing and Urban Development and Related Agencies Appropriations bill now goes before the full Senate.
 
 