SEN. MCCONNELL ISSUES STATEMENT REGARDING DEMOCRATS' TAX HIKES FOR MIDDLE-CLASS FAMILIES
  U.S. Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell delivered the following remarks on the Senate floor Wednesday regarding the Democrats' tax hikes for middle-class families:  
   "Democrats have campaigned hard on the promise of tax relief for the 'middle class.' They say any tax hikes they propose would only affect 'the rich.' 
   "This, of course, raises a question. Who exactly are Democrats calling rich? Let's take a look. 
   "According to Democrats, the 'rich' include single workers who earn $34,000 a year. First year schoolteachers in Jefferson County, Kentucky, earn $35,982 a year. I don't think they're rich. 
   "According to Democrats, Couples are rich if they earn $63,000 a year. I doubt that couples with children who make $63,000 a year think that they're rich. 
   "The fact is, under the Democrat plan, a lot of people will wake up happy to hear they're rich - only to realize the only change in their lives is a hefty tax sock to their wallets. So much for the good news. It's what Patrick Moynihan might have called 'defining wealthy down.' 
   "But there's a purpose behind the rhetoric. Democrats couldn't support their $1.2 trillion in spending - and the largest tax hike in history - unless they cast their tax hike nets far and wide. 
   "So they've propose to raise taxes on tens of millions individuals and families that they call 'rich.' 
   "Under the Democrat plan for taxing the 'rich,' a single mother who earns $45,000 a year would see her taxes go up. 
   "Under the Democrat plan for taxing the 'rich,' 7.8 million low-wage earners will be added back to the tax rolls - workers who are now considered too low-income to pay any income tax at all. 
   "Under the Democrat plan for taxing the 'rich,' 43 million families would be hit with an average tax increase of $2,300 next year. 
   "These are the people that Democrats' in Washington are calling 'rich' - folks who'd laugh if you told them that after a monthly budgeting session around the kitchen table. 
   "One would think that as the economy slows and fears spread about the cost of fuel, health care and food rising even higher, our friends on the other side could resist reverting to type. 
   "The last thing middle-class families can afford is a higher tax bill this year. 
   "So, as the debate over the budget continues, let's be clear about who will be picking up the tab for the largest tax hike in U.S. history. It's not just the rich."
 
 