SEN. MCCONNELL ISSUES STATEMENT ON FY 2006 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS BUDGET
  Sen. Mitch McConnell, Chairman of the Senate Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, held a hearing today on the FY'06 international affairs budget. Testifying before McConnell's committee was Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice.  
   Senator McConnell's opening statement follows: 
   "Welcome, Secretary Rice. 
   "Today's hearing is an historical one. Not only is this your debut before this Subcommittee, but it is also our first-ever hearing since the Subcommittee reorganized earlier this year to incorporate the Department of State's entire operations. 
   "Let me begin my remarks today by commending Chairman Cochran for his wisdom and leadership - and not just with respect to Committee reorganization. On Tuesday, the Senate gave its unanimous approval to the emergency supplemental bill and Senator Cochran deserves the lion's share of credit in getting this important measure to the President in a timely manner. He has the thanks of a grateful nation, particularly our men and women serving in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
   "As we consider the President's FY 2006 request, my colleagues should keep in mind that we will not succeed as a nation in the global war on terror unless we employ our foreign assistance programs as weapons in America's arsenal. This is particularly true with respect to front-line states, such as the $920 million request for Afghanistan, $698 million for Pakistan, $158 million for Indonesia, and $96 million for the Philippines. Simply put, as we strengthen the military, police and good governance of these states, we relieve the demands upon America's own military and diplomatic resources. Our aid runs the gamut from 'hard' counterterrorism and military packages for foreign governments to 'soft' child survival and basic health programs for rural populations. Both are integral components of deterring and defeating terrorism. 
   "As is the case every year, the Subcommittee will have difficult decisions to make in the weeks and months ahead. However, the process of reviewing the $33.6 billion request for the Department of State and foreign operations is well underway. This includes examination of proposed increases above FY 2005 funding levels in such accounts as Transition Initiatives, Diplomatic and Consular Programs and the Millennium Challenge Corporation, and decreases in others, including Assistance for Eastern Europe and the Baltic States, and Assistance for the Independent States of the Former Soviet Union. 
   "I want to assure you, Secretary Rice, that we are attuned to changing realities around the world, including in such regions as Eastern Europe, Central Asia and the Middle East. Under the President's leadership, the march of freedom across the globe has been truly impressive - whether in Iraq, Afghanistan, Ukraine, or Georgia. Please know you have my personal commitment to help advance democracy in Egypt, Belarus and the Kyrgyz Republic, among other countries. 
   "The use of cutting edge technology in this endeavor is vital. If you have not already, I encourage you to become familiar with the programs of Voice for Humanity in both Iraq and Afghanistan. These outreach activities are reaching important segments of those populations, including illiterate individuals and women. 
   "As has become my tradition, let me close with a few words on Burma. The situation in that country remains deplorable, with democracy leader and Nobel laureate Daw Aung San Suu Kyi and her compatriots under continued imprisonment. Access to Suu Kyi since the attempt on her life in May 2003 has been extremely limited, and I remain gravely concerned for her safety. Let me be crystal clear that the security and welfare of Suu Kyi is the direct responsibility of State Peace and Development Council (SPDC) leader Than Shwe. 
   "Along with several of my colleagues - including Senators Leahy and Brownback - I introduced legislation earlier this week to renew sanctions against the repressive SPDC. America's challenge is fairly straightforward - we need to help make the struggle for freedom in Burma a priority for the world's democracies, for multilateral organizations (including the United Nations and the European Union), and for Burma's neighbors. 
   "The SPDC's chairmanship of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) looms on the horizon. We must seize that as an opportunity to increase pressure on the junta until such time that Burma embarks on an irreversible path toward reconciliation and democracy. 
   "I will now ask Senator Leahy to make brief opening remarks, and then we will turn to you, Secretary Rice, for your statement. Seven-minute rounds of questions and answers will follow. We will keep the record open for questions and statements."
 
 