DEMOCRATS CHOOSE TAX HIKE OVER ENERGY BILL
  U.S. Senator Mitch McConnell delivered the following remarks on the Senate floor Thursday regarding the choice between passing a tax hike, and having an energy bill signed into law: 
   "The clock is about to run out on the 2007 congressional calendar, and our Democratic colleagues are about to show us - once again - how to snatch defeat from the jaws of victory, all because they insist on raising taxes.
   "This time, Democrats were on the verge of a real achievement with a bill that would increase fuel efficiency standards for the first time in years, and increase our use of clean, renewable fuels. They had a major accomplishment in their grasp. Why not take 'yes' for an answer?
   "Unfortunately, as on so many other bills, they couldn't bring themselves to simply take the accomplishment without inserting an enormous tax hike - a tax hike they knew would doom this legislation; a tax hike that they knew would never be signed into law.
   "There should be absolutely no question about who - or what - is responsible for the failure of this bill. We have been very clear that the twin millstones of utility rate increases-the RPS provision-and massive tax hikes would sink this bill. There was no ambiguity about it at all. Democrats had a week to remove them. They took a good step this week when they agreed to remove one millstone. But inexplicably, they made the other millstone, the tax hike, even bigger than it was before.
   "If the twin millstones are removed, this important bill can pass the Congress this week and be signed into law. But voting for this bill, as written, is a vote for a bill that will not become law. Worse than that, it's a vote to block the rest of the energy bill. It's a vote to block historic increases in fuel economy, and an increase in renewable fuels.
   "Our Democratic colleagues seem determined to accomplish little this year. And they've helped ensure that with this bill. I strongly believe it's time to quit playing games, time to get serious, and time to get rid of the veto bait so this legislation can become law.
   "Make no mistake: if cloture is invoked with this massive tax hike still attached, they will have killed this bill. The majority will have traded an accomplishment for a tax hike-and a veto.
   "I will vote against this $22 billion tax hike by opposing cloture. And I strongly urge my colleagues to do the same."
 
 