WE'VE HAD AMPLE TIME' TO PASS THIS BIPARTISAN COMPROMISE, SEN. MCCONNELL SAYS
  U.S. Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell delivered the following remarks on the Senate floor Wednesday regarding the need to finish the FISA legislation before it expires at the end of the week:  
   "With regard to the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, it passed here in the Senate yesterday 68-29-an overwhelming bipartisan ratification of the Rockefeller-Bond bipartisan compromise to get us a permanent Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act in place. There were a number of efforts to weaken the bill here on the floor of the Senate. They were all defeated on a bipartisan basis-most of them were defeated by a margin of 2-1. 
   "Over in the House, we have heard from 21 Democratic members, the Blue Dogs, who say the House ought to take up this overwhelmingly bipartisan Senate bill and pass it and send it to the President for signature. 
   "We had an important bipartisan victory last just week on the stimulus package. We have an opportunity to do it again this week on this extraordinarily important piece of legislation. In thinking about how long we have been dealing with this, we passed a short-term extension back in August. We've had six months to figure out what we wanted to do. 
   "We passed an extremely important, probably the most important piece of legislation we will pass this Congress yesterday, on an overwhelming bipartisan vote. The House of Representatives surely has been following what we have done. 
   "There's a bipartisan majority in the House of Representatives for what we did yesterday in the Senate. We know that. 
   "There is a bipartisan majority in the House of Representatives to take up and pass the Senate-passed bill in the House of Representatives now. That's what we know. That's what I hope will be done. 
   "The House will have an opportunity here over the next couple of days to make its decision, but the President, I think, correctly has assessed the situation and decided we have had ample time to deal with this legislation to find out how we felt about it, to vote on it and make whatever changes people thought were appropriate and we know there is a bipartisan majority in the House waiting to pass it, and I hope they are given that opportunity later this week."
 
 