SEN. MCCONNELL ISSUES STATEMENT ON RECENT TRIP TO LATVIA, UKRAINE, RUSSIA, JORDAN, IRAQ
  Sen. Mitch McConnell delivered the following statement today on the Senate floor about his recent trip to Latvia, Ukraine, Russia, Jordan and Iraq. A complete transcript of his remarks follows:  
   "Mr. President, over the Memorial Day recess my colleagues from Idaho and South Carolina joined me on a trip to Europe and the Middle East to review political and economic developments in emerging democracies, and U.S. security and foreign assistance activities that support the march of freedom in those regions. 
   "I want to take a brief moment to share with my colleagues some of the trip highlights. 
   "Our first leg took us to Latvia, where Senators Crapo and DeMint and I met with senior government officials and President Vaira Vike-Freiberga. Although a young democracy, Latvia is unquestionably headed in the right direction. A painful and horrific past under Soviet occupation has seemingly steeled in that country's national consciousness a drive and determination toward freedom and free markets. Not surprisingly, Latvian officials today are keenly aware of events in neighboring Russia, and expressed concern with what they perceive as growing authoritarianism in Moscow. 
   "A member of NATO and the EU, Latvia recognizes that while it continues to make forward progress at home (including passage of important money-laundering legislation), it has an important role to play in the region and beyond. I again want to express my heartfelt appreciation to the people of Latvia for their support of military operations in Iraq and democracy in neighboring Belarus, Ukraine, and Georgia. 
   "U.S. Ambassador Cathy Bailey and her staff, particularly Mark Draper, deserve praise for representing America's interests in Riga ably, continuing to strengthen U.S.-Latvian bilateral relations, and providing outstanding support throughout our visit, including setting up a meeting with the Belarusian opposition. I am particularly proud of Cathy as she is a Kentuckian; she is doing the Commonwealth proud. 
   "From Latvia we traveled to Russia, where the contrast between the two countries was immediate. Although Moscow has physically changed since my last visit in 1993, a bumbling Soviet-era bureaucracy and suspicion of the United States unfortunately remain. 
   "Cooperation on issues of mutual importance to the United States and Russia must continue, including countering terrorism, preventing the proliferation of weapons and materials of mass destruction, and dealing with the challenges of Iran and North Korea. However, concerns expressed in Latvia (and later in Ukraine) on the rollback of democracy in that country were underscored in a meeting we had with a dynamic member of Russia's Duma, and the nine-year prison sentence handed down to ex-YUKOS tycoon Mikhail Khodorkovsky while we were in Moscow. 
   "I echo the calls by President Bush and Secretary of State Rice for greater support and respect for democracy and the rule of law by President Putin and the Russian Government. I would only add that with respect to regional relations, it is in Russia's interest that its neighbors are democratic. It is my view that greater freedom can provide the stability that the Kremlin apparently seeks in Ukraine, Georgia and elsewhere. 
   "In Ukraine, we met with a broad range of government and former government officials to discuss the Orange Revolution, and the need for critical economic reforms that Ukraine must implement in order to fulfill its aspirations for entry into the WTO, EU and NATO. While it is clear that President Yushchenko and Prime Minister Tymoshenko understand the hard work that lies ahead, they - and other key leaders - must keep their collective noses to the grindstone to implement economic reforms as quickly as possible. 
   "As a long time Ukraine-watcher, it is my hope that Yushchenko and Tymoshenko do not repeat the mistakes of previous governments that led to massive corruption and political shenanigans following independence in 1991. The recent failure of the Rada to pass intellectual property rights legislation (which is essential to WTO entry) is a cause for concern. However, Ukrainians should know that America is ready and willing to help further freedom in their country. This was no more clearly demonstrated than through the $60 million provided for Ukraine in the recently passed emergency supplemental. 
   "I know my fellow Senators will agree that U.S. Ambassador John Herbst and his staff deserve recognition for doing a great job. They made sure that our visit included differing views on the Orange Revolution, including those of former President Leonid Kravchuck and Yushchenko-challenger Viktor Yanukovych. 
   "From Ukraine we traveled to Jordan where we met with King Abdallah. We discussed regional issues, particularly Iraq and prospects for peace on the West Bank and Gaza. King Abdallah is clearly engaged on both issues and we appreciate that he continues to be a valued partner for peace. 
   "Given aircraft mechanical problems, our visit to Iraq was somewhat abbreviated. Nonetheless, we departed Baghdad with an unmistakable conclusion: 2005 is a critical year for the future of democracy in that country - and for our own country's efforts to help the Iraqi people secure the blessings of liberty. 
   "The Iraqi people face a number of looming deadlines, including drafting a new constitution by August 15, holding a national referendum on the constitution by October 15, and conducting national elections to form a new government by December 15. The participation of Sunni, Shiite and Kurdish representatives in this process is absolutely imperative. According to an Iraqi parliamentarian we met, the Iraqi people are up to this challenge. They should know that America will continue to stand with them. 
   "In Baghdad, we met with David Satterfield, our Charge d'Affaires, General George Casey, and General David Petraeus. The view expressed by our general officers in Baghdad - that the Iraqi Army has made considerable progress - was shared by the Commander of the Second Marine Expeditionary Force in Fallujah, General Steve Johnson. 
   "In Fallujah, we met with a task force of Marines determined that the heroic combat operations required to take the city should be followed by successful reconstruction efforts. They told us that Iraqi forces are combat ready, and determined in the face of enemy opposition. Recent press reports regarding Operation Matador, and the discovery of an insurgent underground bunker system, reveal only a small part of the great work that our forces are doing in Anbar province. 
   "On a personal note, in Fallujah I was reunited with Second Lieutenant Joe Bilby of the Third Battalion, Eleventh Marine Regiment. This young officer once worked on my staff here in the Senate, heard the call of duty, and earned a commission in the Marine Corps. His unit is executing a mission critical to our success in Iraq. The people of Kentucky, and the rest of the country, should be proud of Lieutenant Bilby and his Marine band of brothers. 
   "Let me close by pointing out that critical to the success of freedom in any country is strong and effective leadership that includes the political will to implement needed political, economic and legal reforms. 
   "As in previous years, my staff and I will be using this measurement as we put together the FY 2006 State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs appropriations bill in the weeks to come."
 
 