SEN. MCCONNELL ADDRESSES IRAQ WAR, AFGHANISTAN WAR CONGRESSIONAL REMEMBRANCE CEREMONY
  Remarks of U.S. Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell 
   Iraq War and Afghanistan War Congressional Remembrance Ceremony 
   The Rotunda, U.S. Capitol, March 13, 2008 
   "Five years ago next week, in the sands of Kuwait, a captain in the U.S. Army spoke some very American words to the soldiers in his command: 'Do your job,' he said. 'So we can all go home.' 
   "An army advanced. The War in Iraq had begun.  
   "Today our nation is engaged in a great debate about the future course of that war and the greater war of which it is a part. There is passion and seriousness and patriotism on both sides. 
   "Yet one thing is certain: the men and women of our military have done their jobs. Their purpose is just. And on this day of remembrance, in this place of honor, we thank all who have served. 
   "We commend all who have sacrificed to protect our nation from the cruel designs of evil men. 
   "Some have returned with wounded bodies and shaken souls. Some have not come home. 
   "Many mothers and fathers and husbands and wives and children have kept lonely vigil for loved ones. And many have wept bitter tears over a long-delayed reunion, or a shattering loss of life. 
   "We have been grief-stricken in the face of injury and death. And in quiet prayers we have asked the Lord of Mercy to embrace the fallen in a kingdom where, as we read, every tear is wiped away. 
   "Sixty-nine Kentuckians have given their lives in this fight. Their stories have a common theme. They loved their families, and they believed their service would keep their families safe. 
   "The widow of one Kentucky soldier was asked how her husband wished to be remembered. She did not hesitate: 'He loved his country,' she said. 'He really believed in what he was doing in Iraq.' 
   "We have felt a solemn pride in men and women like these, in the great feats of bravery and in the small acts of kindness by our troops that we have heard of from the front. 
   "We have been humbled by the sacrifice of so many Americans. And today we recommit ourselves to their service, to the care of those who have returned and to the full support of those who fight. 
   "We pray for those who are in the field, to be strong, and confident, and safe from all harm. And we pray this morning also for the strength to bear new burdens that will come. 
   "In the summer of 1861, Abraham Lincoln came to this building to speak about another war. The dome above us was half-finished, and confederate soldiers were in striking distance of the Capital City. 
   "Lincoln said that Americans had already shown they could establish and administer a government of the people. Now they had to prove that this government could be maintained in the face of an internal revolt. 
   "In the crucible of a bloody civil war, America proved it could withstand that threat. 
   "In the century that followed, millions of Americans would rise up to beat back the threat of despots who mocked the rights of men. 
   "And in this third American century, we will prove that America is stronger than the fanatics who want to destroy it. 
   "These years have not been easy. But we are reminded, in the words of an ancient writer, that 'The purpose of war is peace.' And on this day of remembrance, we can be sure that as long as good and generous souls rise up to defend America, the world can hope for days of peace to come."
 
 