SEN. MCCONNELL ISSUES STATEMENT ON THAPAR'S CONFIRMATION AS U.S. ATTORNEY FOR KENTUCKY'S EASTERN DISTRICT
  Senate Majority Whip Mitch McConnell announced today that the U.S. Senate has approved the nomination of Amul R. Thapar to be U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Kentucky. Sen. McConnell inserted the following statement on Mr. Thapar into the Congressional Record: 
   "Mr. President, it is my great honor and privilege today to speak on behalf of Amul R. Thapar, the President's nominee to be the next United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Kentucky. Mr. Thapar is an outstanding man of great credentials and character. He has many years of experience successfully prosecuting some of America's most wanted criminals, and his confirmation will lead to a safer, more just Kentucky.  
   "Mr. Thapar has served as an Assistant United States Attorney in Cincinnati since 2002. In that position, he has managed the successful prosecution of a wide variety of federal crimes, with an emphasis on public corruption, homeland security and violent crimes. 
   "Mr. Thapar led the Southern Ohio Mortgage Fraud Task Force, which successfully prosecuted approximately 40 perpetrators of mortgage fraud. Last year, he led the successful investigation and prosecution of a conspiracy ring to provide illegal aliens with fraudulent driver's licenses. 
   "Mr. Thapar also served as an Assistant United States Attorney right here in Washington, D.C., from 1999 to 2001. He went after violent criminals in the District, and had a role in prosecuting the notorious "Starbucks Homicides" that happened in Georgetown several years ago. 
   "For his excellence in public service, Mr. Thapar has been recognized by the Department of Justice, which honored him with a special achievement award; by the Postal Inspection Service, for his many successful investigations of violent and white-collar crimes; by the Secret Service for his efforts to fight counterfeiting; and the FBI for his campaigns against bank fraud and election fraud. 
   "Mr. Thapar is an accomplished attorney in private practice as well. He has worked as an Associate at both the prestigious Squire, Sanders & Dempsey law firm of Cincinnati and the Williams & Connolly law firm of Washington, D.C. In both of those jobs, he managed and litigated complex cases on behalf of major corporations in both federal and state courts. 
   "Mr. Thapar has served as an Adjunct Professor at Georgetown University Law Center, and until recently served as an Adjunct Professor at the University of Cincinnati College of Law, where he taught Federal Criminal Practice. He has clerked for Judge Nathaniel R. Jones of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit and Judge S. Arthur Spiegel of the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Ohio. 
   "Even while managing such an impressive career, Amul still finds time to volunteer in his community. In 1995 he founded the Cincinnati chapter of the well-respected Street Law program. Street Law sends law-school students into underprivileged high schools to teach kids about the basic underpinnings of our legal system, and the rights and responsibilities inherent in being an American citizen. Hundreds of students have benefited from Amul's initiative, and the program is larger and more successful than ever after 11 years. 
   "Amul graduated from the renowned Boalt Hall School of Law of the University of California after receiving his undergraduate degree with high honors from Boston College. In addition to his remarkable career accomplishments, Amul has a remarkable family, and I am sure his wife, Kimberly, and his children, Zachary, Carmen and Nicholas, are very proud of him and all he has achieved. 
   "The President has made the right choice by calling on Amul to serve the people of Kentucky as the chief law-enforcement officer for the state's Eastern District. Amul's entire career has prepared him for this assignment. He has risen to the top of his field to become a stellar career prosecutor. He has gained valuable experience in handling all types of cases. And, most importantly, he is a man of integrity, intelligence, and spirit, who has a deep desire to seek out justice on behalf of those who deserve it. 
   "I appreciate my fellow Senators' expeditious handling of Mr. Thapar's nomination. I am confident he has the energy and the experience to excel as Kentucky's next United States Attorney."
 
 