SEN. MCCONNELL ISSUES STATEMENT ON SITUATION IN BURMA
  Sen. Mitch McConnell today released the following statement on the situation in Burma. His remarks appeared in the Congressional Record as follows: 
   "Mr. President, I want to take a brief moment to update my colleagues on the situation in Burma.  
   "In short: there has been no progress: 
   * Burmese democracy leader Aung San Suu Kyi remains under house arrest; 
   * 1,300 prisoners of conscience remain in Burmese jails - with others threatened by arrest for speaking out against the convention; and 
   * The SPDC nightmare of rape and repression continues unabated in Burma. 
   "I expect that the junta may again release Suu Kyi in the hours leading up to the State Peace and Development Council (SPDC) orchestrated May 17th constitutional convention charade. The world must hold the applause. 
   "The generals in Rangoon need to do much more to prove they are serious about reconciliation than staging bad political theater in which they control every line and cue. 
   "What should the SPDC do? First, release all political prisoners including those rounded up in the anticipation of the convention. Second, permit the NLD to operate freely, including immediately reopening all party offices. Third, allow NLD members to meet with ethnic leaders without threats of harassment, imprisonment or worse. Finally, provide the international press with unfettered access to Burmese democrats- throughout the country. 
   "While the NLD will decide whether or not to attend the constitutional charade, the international community bears the responsibility to condemn a fundamentally flawed process that offers little in the way of transition to democracy. I remain deeply concerned that the regime has not rescinded their order, which imposes lengthy prison sentences on anyone who speaks out against the national convention. What more evidence of a Potemkin village is needed? 
   "As we think about Burma, it is important to consider the comments of Tashika Elbegdorj, former Mongolian Prime Minister, who wrote in a recent op-ed on Burma: 
   "That the regime attempts to justify its behavior by talking about 'managed democracy' and the 'Asian way to democracy' is an outrage. The fact that Burma's regional neighbors look the other way while making pretences about 'internal affairs' is a stain on all Asians - and this must change." 
   "Tashika Elbegdorj speaks the truth and I commend his interest in the struggle of freedom for Burma. I encourage other democrats in the region to find their voices in support of Suu Kyi and the NLD in the days, week, and months to come. 
   "Let me close by highlighting yesterday's Baltimore Sun editorial on Burma entitled 'Window Dressing' that encouraged the U.S. Senate to '... act quickly to renew import sanctions....' And this time sanctions must be followed by a U.S. diplomatic campaign - with the generals, their Southeast Asian apologists and the U.N. Security Council - that will be more strongly focused on forcing the junta to begin sharing power. Ms. Suu Kyi has deservedly gained world renown as a symbol of the Burmese quest for freedom, but she is also just one of 50 million people who remain under this regime's lock and key." 
   "The Sun editors got it right: the Senate must act quickly to pass Senate Joint Resolution 36, which renews import sanctions against Burma. By doing so, we send a clear message that America continues to stand with the people of Burma. It is my hope that we can get agreement to consider and pass this resolution before the May recess. 
   "Mr. President, I ask that the former Prime Minister's op-ed, which appeared in The Nation, an English-language newspaper in Thailand, and the Baltimore Sun editorial appear in the Record following my remarks."
 
 