SEN. MCCONNELL COMMENTS ON DEMOCRATIC FILIBUSTERING OF JUDICIAL NOMINEES
  Sen. Mitch McConnell delivered the following speech today on the Senate floor on the Democratic filibustering of judicial nominees: 
   "Mr. President, we as senators have an enormous amount of work to do for the American people. For example, while our economy is strong, unfortunately gas prices are way too high. People are feeling those costs every time they fill up at the pump. This Senate needs to seriously address a long-term energy policy for this country, and reduce our dependence on foreign oil.  
   "We have serious work to do to reform America's tax code, so it is fairer for all Americans, and leads to a more robust economy. 
   "We have undertaken a debate on how to reform Social Security so it is stronger and more secure for future generations, as it has served millions so well already over the last 70 years. 
   "Our road system needs improving. Millions of Americans take to the roads everyday to get to work and keep this country moving. It's critical the Senate pass a highway bill. 
   "In short, Mr. President, we have a formidable agenda before us. I welcome that challenge. I think that our constituents sent us here to get things done, not just to sit in these fancy chairs. But the nation's business may soon come to an abrupt halt. 
   "In the face of so much important work to be done, sadly, my Democratic friends on the other side of the aisle are promising to pull the plug on this chamber, and thus shut down the government. Just because a majority of Senators want to restore the 200-year-old norms and traditions of the Senate, by granting a president's judicial nominees who have majority support the simple courtesy of an up-or-down vote, my colleagues on the other side of the aisle are threatening to stop this Senate dead in its tracks. 
   "An energy bill to begin to address the high cost of gasoline and reduce our dependence on foreign oil? 
   "Forget it. 
   "A highway bill, to begin desperately needed repairs on bridges and roads across the country? 
   "Not a chance. 
   "These and other priorities will not happen, Mr. President, if the Democrats shut down the government. Because they cannot have what no Senate minority has ever had in the 229-year history of our country-the requirement of a supermajority for confirmation-they will threaten to shut the government down. 
   "The American people by now must rightly be asking, "How did we get in such a mess?" 
   "It was not by accident. The Democrats did not stumble into this position. It was carefully conceived. 
   "Four years ago, in May of 2001, the New York Times reported that 42 of the Senate's then-50 Democrats attended a private weekend retreat in Farmington, Pennsylvania, to discuss a plan of attack against the President's judicial nominees. 
   "According to this article, the unprecedented obstruction by the other side is not based on checks and balances, or the rights of the minority. It is about ideology. The Democrats invited speakers to their retreat who warned them that President Bush was planning to, quote, "pack the courts with staunch conservatives," unquote. 
   "Now, here's the clincher. According to the New York Times, one participant said, quote, "it was important for the Senate to change the ground rules, and there was no obligation to confirm someone just because they are scholarly or erudite," unquote. 
   "Let me make sure that last part came through loud and clear. The Democrats are accusing the Republicans, who merely want to restore the 200-year-tradition of giving judicial nominees with majority support an up-or-down vote, of some kind of power grab. Yet here is a four-year old admission that it is the Democrats who are clearly out to "change the ground rules." 
   "That says it all. If a minority of the Senate does not get its way in obstructing judges from serving on our nation's federal courts, they will "change the ground rules." They will shut down the government. I say to my friends, "Please don't take the extreme step of shutting the government down." 
   "I would like to enter this New York Times article of May 1, 2001 into the Record. 
   "Now, the record about "who" is out to change "what" is not merely confined to the statements from this article. No, Mr. President, we've got four years of behavior to corroborate these statements. "Soon after that Democrat retreat, and continuing to this day, we have seen our Democratic friends make major changes in the Senate's "ground rules" for confirming qualified judicial nominees. 
   "For example, almost immediately the Democrats began to litmus-test judges in order to strain out the ones they considered "too conservative." When they controlled the Judiciary Committee in the 107th Congress, they even held hearings on using "ideology" in the confirmation process in an effort to legitimize their practice of litmus-testing judges. 
   "The Democrats have widely-applied their litmus tests. They have filibustered almost one circuit court nominee for every three they have confirmed. As a result, in his first term, President George W. Bush had only 69% of his circuit-court nominees confirmed. That is the lowest confirmation percentage of any president since World War II. 
   "In addition, the Democrats began to demand that they in effect get to co-nominate judges along with the President. The Constitution clearly provides in Article II, Section 2, that the President, and the President alone, nominates judges. The Senate is empowered to give "advice and consent." The Democrats, however, have sought to redefine "advice and consent" to mean "co-nominate." 
   "President Bush, rightly so, has not acceded to this attempt to upset our Constitution's separation of powers. Unfortunately, the administration of justice is suffering. In the case of the Sixth Circuit, for example, Democratic Senators are willing to let one-fourth of the circuit seats sit empty in order to enforce their demands. As a result, the Sixth Circuit, which includes Kentucky, is far and away the slowest circuit in the nation. My constituents and the other residents of the Sixth Circuit are the victims. Thanks to the other side's obstruction, Kentuckians know too well that justice delayed means justice denied. 
   "The Democrats have changed other "ground rules" in the confirmation process, Mr. President. But all these changes were just precursors to what happened in the last Congress. In 2003, Democrats instituted the ultimate change in the Senate's ground rules: they began to obstruct, via the filibuster, on a systematic and partisan basis, well-qualified nominees who commanded majority support. That is unprecedented in over 200 years of Senate history. 
   "Republicans did not filibuster judicial nominees, even though it would have been easy for us to do so. Let me give you the names of some very controversial Democratic judicial nominees whom we could have easily filibustered. Richard Paez. William Fletcher. Susan Oki Molloway. Abner Mikva. None of these nominees had 60 votes for confirmation. 
   "Other controversial Democratic nominees, like Marsha Berzon, barely had 60 votes for confirmation, but we did not whip our caucus to try to filibuster them either. Indeed, just the opposite occurred: Senators Lott and Hatch, to their great credit, argued that we ought not to set such a precedent, no matter how strongly we oppose the nominee. 
   "Our friends, the Democrats, are driving a double standard: The nominees of a Democratic President only had to garner majority support, as had every other judicial nominee in history until Democrats sought to change the ground rules. But nominees of a Republican President have to get a much higher level of support. That is hypocrisy, Mr. President, pure and simple. "Because the majority may seek to restore the norms and traditions of the Senate-norms and traditions that my Democratic friends have upset-the Democrats are now threatening to shut down the government. That's not right. 
   "We need to recommit ourselves to the 200 year principle that in a democracy an up or down vote should be given to a president's judicial nominees. It's simple. It's fair. It's been that way for over two centuries. And it's served us well."
 
 