JUSTICE SERVED: MURDERER OF KENTUCKY MARINE KILLED IN SYRIA
  U.S. Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell on Thursday delivered the following speech on the Senate floor about the killing of the terrorist responsible for the death of Kentuckian, U.S. Marine Colonel William Richard Higgins:  
   "An important mile marker in the War on Terror was passed late Tuesday night. A terrorist by the name of Imad Mugniyah, one of the world's most wanted murderers and a top commander of Hezbollah, was killed in Damascus. With his death, long-delayed justice has finally been served. 
   "News reports are still coming in, and so far no one has claimed responsibility for his death. But we know one thing for certain: As Sean McCormack, a spokesman for the State Department put it, 'The world is a better place without this man in it.' 
   "Let me describe for my colleagues just a few of this murderer's many heinous crimes. American officials accuse him of plotting the 1983 bombing of a U.S. Marine compound in Beirut, killing 241 soldiers. 
   "He is accused of masterminding a car bomb which exploded at an American embassy in Beirut, also in 1983, killing 63 people. 
   "American prosecutors charged him in the hijacking of a TWA jetliner in 1985. He is also accused of shipping arms to violent, radical terrorist groups. 
   "And then there is one brutal act that struck deep in the heart of my hometown of Louisville, Kentucky. Imad Mugniyah was behind the brutal kidnapping, torture and murder of U.S. Marine Colonel William Richard Higgins. 
   "Colonel Higgins was a Kentuckian, born in Danville. He graduated from Southern High School in Louisville, participated in ROTC at Miami University in Ohio, and served multiple tours in Vietnam. 
   "Over a 20-year military career, he received numerous medals and awards, including the Defense Distinguished Service Medal, the Defense Superior Service Medal, the Legion of Merit, the Bronze Star with combat 'V' and the Purple Heart. 
   "On February 17, 1988, Colonel Higgins was captured by armed terrorists in Lebanon while serving on a UN peacekeeping mission. He was held, interrogated and tortured. 
   "A year and a half after his capture, terrorists released a grisly videotape of Colonel Higgins's lifeless body, hung by the neck, which played on television sets around the world. 
   "In Louisville, we built a memorial to Colonel Higgins on the grounds of his alma mater, Southern High School. 
   "We were outraged then, and we are still outraged now, to see what happened to this good and brave man at the hands of thugs. 
   "Now, at long last, we know justice has been brought to his murderers. 
   "In an essay titled 'My Credo,' Colonel Higgins once wrote: 'As an officer of Marines, I believe it is my charge to set the example.' 
   "Well, Colonel, the high-school students in Louisville who pass by your memorial every day will always remember the example you set. You served your country with pride, and now may rest in peace."
 
 