SEN. MCCONNELL ON CNN: 'I THINK WHAT THE AMERICAN PEOPLE WOULD LIKE TO SEE IS SUCCESS'
  U.S. Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell appeared on CNN's "Late Edition with Wolf Blitzer" this morning. The following are excerpts from the program:  
   On the President's strategy for victory in Iraq 
   "Our democratic friends don't have an alternative other than that leave. Senator McCain said a while back, unlike Vietnam if we leave Iraq, they'll follow us here. So we need to try to have a success here, a win. What is the definition of a win, Wolf? It is a stable government and an ally in the war on terror. You can't have stability and this new democracy can't begin to function properly unless there is some measure of security in the capital city. So that's what this increase in troops is about, to get security in Baghdad. Once that's occurred, then I think we can begin to draw down our troop commitments." 
   "I think what the American people would like to see is success. They would like to see progress. The President has looked at the situation, analyzed the situation, talked to his advisors, consulted with Congress. We had numerous meetings, and concluded the best chance to succeed is to have a secure capital. To quiet Baghdad down and give it a chance to function. We all know what would happen if we left." 
   On the need to succeed in Iraq and the war on terror 
   "What we do know has been extremely successful and the principal reason for going on offense was to protect us here at home. That part on the war on terror has been 100-percent success. We have not been attacked for five years. The more difficult part has been leaving behind a stable government in Iraq. 
   "I think there are bipartisan differences on the best way forward. I think we ought to give the president a chance to succeed so we can have a victory there. Victory being defined as a stable government." 
   On proposed Democrat proposals for non-binding resolutions 
   "We will see what the wording actually ends up being. And whether the Democrats really want to do the only thing that can have an impact, which is to cut off funds for the war. They'll have that opportunity. On the supplemental appropriation in February, that will be the real thing: Money for the troops. 
   On the prospect of cooperation from the Iraqi government 
   "I have confidence we will find out shortly. The President told them what needs to be done. They said they will do it and we will find out shortly if they can produce."
 
 