SEN. MCCONNELL'S COLUMN CELEBRATING U.S. ARMY'S 232ND BIRTHDAY
  The United States Army stands as the pride of this country and the envy of the world. This month marks its 232nd birthday.  
   On June 14, 1775, an all-volunteer force of colonialists banded together to battle the tyranny of a king across the sea and to secure a democratic republic. Today, an all-volunteer force fights in Iraq, Afghanistan and around the world to protect our freedoms and security here at home. 
   In between, the men and women of the U.S. Army fought throughout Asia, Europe, the Middle East and on our own soil. Whenever their country has called them, they have responded. Now, after the most devastating attack ever on American soil has plunged us into a War on Terror, the Army yet again answered the call, with bravery and dedication. 
   As Americans continue to volunteer to wear their country's uniform, more seasoned soldiers who already know combat are electing to stay in the Army as well. For fiscal year 2006-covering the period from October 2005 through September 2006-the Army exceeded its retention goals for every rank of soldier and every specialty of service. The Army Reserve and National Guard also surpassed their targeted goals. 
   While recruitment and retention enables the U.S. Army to fight harder, transforming how the Army works helps it fight smarter as well. Over the past five years, while fighting the War on Terror, the Army has reformed how soldiers are organized so they can be deployed faster and more efficiently. 
   One way to do this has been the development of the Brigade Combat Team System, or BCT. During the Cold War, soldiers were massed into divisions containing thousands of soldiers. New BCTs are quite different. A BCT is a smaller fighting force, containing soldiers trained in all kinds of combat and support specialties. With BCTs, the Army can enter combat faster and adjust to changing circumstances on the battlefield more quickly. 
   By 2010, Fort Knox will become home to one of these BCTs when it welcomes a BCT for the First Infantry Division. We already have several BCTs based in Fort Campbell. This transformation of how we fight marks a significant and important leap forward for the Army, and allows it to contribute more to our nation's defense as we face a new variety of threats in the 21st Century. 
   For 232 years, brave men and women of honor have joined the U.S. Army and fought underneath our flag for freedom. Nearly all Kentuckians know someone-a friend, relative or neighbor-who has served or is now wearing the uniform on active duty, the National Guard or the Reserves. Throughout history, Kentucky soldiers, including dozens since September 11, 2001, have made the ultimate sacrifice by giving their lives in battle. 
   For them, and for all the Americans who one day will put on the uniform, we must do everything we can to ensure our soldiers have what they need. 
   An Army soldier's life demands total dedication and discipline, as expressed in what the Army calls its warrior ethos: "I will always place the mission first. I will never accept defeat. I will never quit. And I will never leave a fallen comrade." 
   The rest of us can and should be just as dedicated to helping them win their fight.
 
 