SEN. MCCONNELL ISSUES STATEMENT ON TAX DAY
  U.S. Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell delivered the following remarks on the Senate floor Tuesday regarding Tax Day, and the Democrats' budget which contains the largest tax hike in U.S. history:
   "Most Americans view April 15th as a sort of national anti-holiday, when they're forced to take a hard look at how much of their money goes into a Washington spending machine instead of their children's education or their gas tank. 
   "It's worth noting that most people don't dread Tax Day as much as they used to; as much as they did before Republican policies significantly reduced the share of the family budget that goes from taxpayer wallets to the Treasury Department.
   "According to a recent Gallup Poll, 43 percent of middle income earners say they're paying too much in taxes - 43 percent, but still far fewer than the 59 percent who thought they were being overtaxed seven years ago.
   "The reason for the drop-off isn't too hard to figure out: The reason a lot fewer people think their tax burden is too high is that their tax burden is a lot lower than it was six years ago.
   "Married couples and families with children have benefited from tax credits, tens of millions of Americans have benefited from tax cuts on dividends and capital gains, including more than 250,000 people in Kentucky.
   "And that's why it's critical that middle class Americans understand the path that Democrats are headed down.
   "At a time when the economy is slowing and Americans are paying record prices for food, gas, and healthcare, our Democrat friends are preparing the largest tax hike in U.S. history - nearly three times larger than the previous record.
   "We saw the plan last month in a budget that only one Democrat in the Senate voted against, a blueprint that raises taxes on middle class families by $2,300 a year.
   "Our friends won't admit this is a tax hike; they won't say they're raising taxes; they plan to do it quietly, by letting all the recently enacted tax cuts and credits that Americans have benefited from over the past several years expire.
   "If you ask about it, they'll tell you these tax cuts were only for the rich anyway.
   "Don't listen to them.
   "Unless, of course, you think 43 million American families with children who will pay thousands more in taxes under the Democrat budget are rich, and should be taxed more.
   "Or that all 18 million seniors who will pay thousands more in taxes under the Democrat budget are rich, and should be taxed more.
   "Or that every owner of the 27 million small businesses in the U.S. who will have to pay $4,100 more in taxes under the Democrat budget are rich, and should be taxed more.
   "Under the Budget that every Democrat in the Senate but one voted for last month, taxes will go up on anyone who makes more than $34,000. Are these people rich? Should they pay more in taxes?
   "The first-year teacher in Louisville who makes $35,982 - is he or she rich? Does he or she need to be taxed more? I'll bet they don't think so.
   "How about the veteran teacher with a PhD. who maxes out at $73,418 - is he or she rich? Does he or she need to be taxed more? I'll bet they don't think so.
   "Our Democrat friends have their own answer to these questions: they voted for an amendment last month that extends tax breaks on married couples and children.
   "The problem, of course, is that they voted for a similar amendment last year, and then they didn't do a thing about it. They had no intention of making it into law.
   "So if past experience is any indication of future events, our friends won't act on the amendment this year either. They cast a vote that's intended to appeal to working families, but their record shows they won't follow through by actually doing anything about it.
   "As Americans struggle to pay the bills and millions worry about falling home values and whether they'll even be able to keep their homes, they should be able to expect more from Congress than political cover votes and class warfare rhetoric.
   "All the recently-enacted tax cuts will soon expire. These cuts have helped tens of millions of American families and seniors. These folks should know what's coming. And Democrats in Washington should relent on their plans to return to the bad old days when 60 percent of them thought their tax bills were too high.
   "That's the road our friends on the other side are taking us down. They've shown us the blueprint. It certainly was not written with working families in mind."
 
 