SEN. MCCONNELL RECEIVES HONORARY DOCTORATE FROM WEIZMANN INSTITUTE OF SCIENCE
  Sen. Mitch McConnell (R-KY) today received an honorary doctorate from the Weizmann Institute of Science in Rehovot, Israel. His remarks follow: 
   "Thank you for that kind introduction. 
   "I can't say how humbled I was upon first learning I was to receive this great honor. My gratitude multiplied when I realized that as an honorary doctorate, you have placed me alongside such leaders as Menachem Begin, the Baroness Thatcher, and Ronald Reagan. I would never promise to equal their accomplishments. But I can promise you; I'll do my hardest to equal their commitment to the defense of democracy and the pursuit of justice. Thank you.  
   "I also thank my hosts and all of you for welcoming me so warmly to the State of Israel. America and Israel share a bond as defenders of human life and dignity in a troubled world. For the support that Israel has given the United States through its own times of trial, I'm here to say, "thank you." And I assure you that America's support for a strong and secure Israel will never waver. 
   "It's truly a privilege to be here today, among the finest scientific minds in the world. I was pleased to see that two Israeli scientists shared in the Nobel Prize for chemistry this year. Israel is a world leader in science and technology, and the Weizmann Institute stands at the forefront of that leadership. 
   "The last thing I'm going to try to do, though, is speak to you about science. I'm hardly qualified to do so. My wife won't even let me change the oil in our car. No, you invited a politician, so politics is what you'll get. 
   "The American people have overwhelmingly reelected President George W. Bush to a second four-year term. The President won nearly 60 million votes, more than any other candidate in American history. And throughout the campaign, the President made clear that he would aggressively prosecute the Global War on Terror, by taking the fight to the terrorists. 
   "His opponent presented a very different view, and the American people chose to stand with President Bush. For the next four years, America will continue to destroy terrorists and the regimes that harbor them. And Israel will have a great friend in the White House, and in Congress. 
   "After September the 11th, 2001, Americans have a deadly understanding of what it means to live under the threat of terrorism. But Israelis have known this threat for much longer, and much more intimately. As dedicated as America is to the War on Terror, it is sometimes difficult for many of us to relate to your struggle. When an American boards a bus, his biggest worry is whether he will reach his destination on time. An Israeli must worry whether he will reach his at all. 
   "My country salutes Israel's courage. I am here to tell you that America and Israel are allies in this war against terror, and we fight the same enemy. And united together, we will defeat this enemy. 
   "During the War on Terror, President Bush has taken appropriately bold measures to defend America. President Abraham Lincoln did the same during our country's Civil War, as President Franklin Delano Roosevelt did during World War II. The American people ratified President Bush's actions by electing him to another term-as they did for Lincoln and Roosevelt. In fact, President Bush is the first president since Roosevelt in 1936 to be reelected while gaining seats in both houses of Congress. 
   "Because the American people have voted for a strong offense against terrorism, it is entirely appropriate that America support Israel's natural right to defend against terrorism, by whatever means necessary. To do any less would be hypocrisy. 
   "Israel has the right and the obligation to do whatever is required to stop the killing of her innocent citizens, including the construction of the security fence. Although not yet completed, the fence has already proved of great value by significantly reducing the number of successful terrorist attacks inside Israel. Whatever your methods, the American people support Israel as an oasis of freedom and democracy amidst a sea of repression. And as a Senator I have done everything in my power to support you. 
   "President Bush's vision of a two-state solution, with an independent Palestine coexisting peacefully with a terror-free Israel, is still the long-term goal. 
   "But make no mistake: Before that happens, the Palestinians must unconditionally renounce terror as a political tool. Their leadership must pursue the terrorists and dismantle their organizations. They must reject Hamas, Hezbollah, Islamic Jihad, and other killers of their ilk. They must reform their political institutions and educational systems, and remove the hatred of Jews that permeates their textbooks and denies Israel's existence. 
   "In short, they must choose peace, and reject war. 
   "Just as the American people have recently reaffirmed their commitment to fighting the Global War on Terror with this month's historic election, so too do the Palestinians have an historic opportunity to renounce terror by embracing new, moderate leadership after the death of Yasser Arafat. 
   "Let me be blunt about Chairman Arafat: I never believed him a friend of America or of Israel, or, frankly, capable of making peace with Israel. However devoted to the Palestinian people he may have been, with his passing, perhaps he has given them a greater opportunity for peace than he ever did in life. 
   "Out of the despair and sadness so many Palestinians must be feeling can come new hope. I've traveled far to say this to the Palestinian people: If you leave the shadow of terrorism and walk forthrightly into the bright sunshine of democracy and freedom, America will stand beside you. 
   "Palestinians must urge their new leaders, including Mahmoud Abbas and Ahmed Qurei, to abandon Arafat's heritage of hatred and suicide bombs. If Palestinians approach Israel with an open hand instead of a clenched fist, I am sure Israel and America will respond in kind. 
   "Sadly, Arafat's firm grip on the powers of government denied his people the political freedom and economic prosperity they had a right to expect. I hope that the next Palestinian leader will work to give Palestinians the rights and liberties enjoyed by the Jews, Christians, and Muslims who are citizens of Israel. 
   "And to ensure that their voices remain heard, Palestinians should see that political power is shared among many rather than hoarded by one or a few. Arafat's absolute rule over the Palestinian Authority and the Palestine Liberation Organization held back progress for both Israel and the Palestinians for far too long. For the governors to have the consent of the governed, and for that governing power to be shared amongst many, is the first step towards democracy. 
   "Some of you may be skeptical that peaceful co-existence between Israel and the Palestinians can ever be achieved. So are some Americans. But I believe they're wrong. The journey will be long and arduous, and must start with the Palestinians meeting their commitments under the Roadmap. 
   "I know that with Arafat's passing, there will be some, particularly in Europe, who believe that we can skip to the endgame and quickly establish a Palestinian state. But that would yield a false progress that will solve nothing, and delay the real work for peace that must be done. 
   "I have no doubt of the great yearning that Israelis have for peace. It was, after all, your prophets who first spoke the words, "low yisa goy el goy hairev"-hoping for a time when "nation will not lift sword against nation." Israelis want to be able to send their kids to school in the morning and not worry whether they will be safe, to ride buses to work and not worry that someone will blow them up, or simply to go out for a meal in safety. And they-you-are prepared to make great sacrifices to achieve that peace. Now Palestinians have the opportunity to start afresh to achieve that great goal. 
   "For more than 50 years, Jews from all over the world have flocked to the State of Israel to transform this barren desert into a beacon of liberty and prosperity. Despite your limited natural resources, you have turned this land into an agricultural wonder. Seventy years ago, despite a lack of scientific and capital resources, Dr. Chaim Weizmann established a humble research institute. Now the Weizmann Institute of Science explores the boundaries of science and technology like no other institution in the world. 
   "This great Institute is proof that out of freedom comes progress, prosperity, and hope for the future. You scientists are, at this very moment, closer to curing cancer than man has ever been before. As much as you have dedicated yourselves to unraveling the mysteries of science, we political leaders should dedicate ourselves to solving the mystery of how two people can live in harmony on the same land. 
   "Deuteronomy, chapter 30, verse 19, reads, "I have set before you life and death, blessing and cursing: therefore choose life, that both thou and thy seed may live." Now is the time for both Palestinians and Israelis to choose life, and go forward together in peace and hope. It can be done. It must be done. 
   "Thank you."
 
 