SEN. MCCONNELL: INTELLIGENCE BILL IS BIPARTISAN START TO FISA REFORM
  U.S. Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell delivered the following remarks on the Senate floor Monday regarding the bipartisan Intelligence Committee bill on FISA reform: 
   "We will have a cloture vote shortly on the motion to proceed to the FISA reform legislation that the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence reported last fall.
   "I am glad we are proceeding to this bipartisan bill, rather than to either of the Rule 14 proposals. Both of those proposals would carve-out core components of the Intel Committee's bill and likely would not obtain a Presidential signature.
   "The Intelligence Committee bill is a rarity in this Congress. It is the product of weeks of painstaking negotiations between Senate Republicans and Democrats, and benefited from the participation of intelligence experts in the Administration.
   "The overwhelming bipartisan vote in the Intel Committee reflected the care, concern and good faith that went into crafting its bill. The final vote was not 15-0, but a vote of 13-2 is pretty close.
   "What is all the more impressive about the intelligence bill is that this accomplishment is in an area--foreign intelligence surveillance--that is highly sensitive.
   "Modifications to the intelligence bill still need to be made. But it contains the two main ingredients that are needed for a Presidential signature: it will allow intelligence professionals to do their jobs, and it will not allow trial lawyers to sue telecom companies that helped protect the country.
   "Unfortunately, the Judiciary Committee bill lacks all the hallmarks of the Intelligence Committee's product:
   "It does not provide our intelligence community with all the tools it needs;
   "It does not protect telecommunications companies from lawsuits;
   "It does not enjoy bipartisan support; and most importantly, it will not become law.
   "So, I think we have one approach that could lead to an important accomplishment, and we have one that will not. I am hopeful we will choose the right path.
   "Finally, I'd like to make a couple of brief comments about the floor process for FISA reform legislation.
   "I will be voting for cloture on the motion to proceed to the Intel bill, and I encourage my colleagues to do the same.
   "A cloture vote is needed because of objections to the bipartisan Intel bill by Senator Feingold and others of my Democratic colleagues.
   "It is certainly their right to object to the Senate's consideration of this important legislation. But it is also the right of other Senators to proceed carefully and thoughtfully on this matter.
   "Legislation dealing with our foreign intelligence surveillance capabilities is complex. And what we do will determine if we are able to adequately defend the Homeland from attack.
   "Thus, Republicans will insist on being able to debate and study the complicated and consequential amendments that are offered.
   "That is every Senator's right, and especially in this area, it is every Senator's duty."
 
 