SEN. MCCONNELL SPEAKS ON 'VOTER PROTECTION ACT OF 2005'
  Sen. Mitch McConnell delivered the following statement on the Senate floor today on the introduction of the "Voter Protection Act of 2005": 
   "I rise today to introduce the Voter Protection Act of 2005, and I am pleased to be joined once again by my good friend from Missouri, Senator Bond.  
   "In the wake of the 2000 election, as Chairman of the Rules and Administration Committee and then its Ranking Member, Senators Bond, Dodd and I worked together to address the problems brought to light in the 2000 elections. In January of 2001, I introduced the first of what would become several election reform bills. Nearly two years later, all the hard work and long hours paid off with the President of the United States signing the Help America Vote Act of 2002, commonly referred to as "HAVA," into law. This legislation passed with near-unanimous support in both chambers. HAVA set forth several minimum standards for states to meet, and was coupled with a new Election Assistance Commission to provide advice and distribute $3 billion dollars to date. The goal was and is to make it easier to vote and harder to cheat. 
   "The 2004 elections were the first conducted under HAVA. There are reports of many successes attributable to HAVA, including a new Cal-Tech/MIT study which found a decrease in the residual vote rate, or ballots that did not record a vote for president. Further, there were new requirements for identification while registering or at the polls, new voting technology, statewide databases and a broad federal requirement for the casting of provisional ballots. HAVA was a tremendous success, but all the co-sponsors were careful to avoid a complete federal takeover of elections. As was stated by prominent election expert Doug Lewis: After conducting elections for over 200 years, state and local officials didn't become stupid in just one election. Throughout the bill we remained respectful of the states' rights and left methods of implementation to the discretion of the states. 
   "Today we bring before this body a new piece of legislation which builds upon the successes of HAVA and clarifies some of the misinterpretations that occurred in the last election. This bill provides state and local election officials more tools to ensure every eligible voter casts their vote but makes sure it is counted only once. First, the most important part of the election process is an accurate and secure voter registration list. This legislation clarifies several provisions related to ensuring those who register are: 1) legally entitled to do so, 2) do so only once, and 3) in only one state. Further, we address the problem brought about by voter registration drives which dumped impossible numbers of new registrations on the last day of registration. The bill ensures that only a real-life, eligible Mary Poppins registers to vote. 
   "Second, the process of actually casting a ballot is sacred to all Americans. The legislation will ensure accurate poll lists and photo identification at the polls, and will reaffirm HAVA's goal of permitting state law to govern counting provisional ballots. Further, for absentee ballots, having them returned by Election Day and requiring authentication of their request is crucial. Thus if a real, eligible, registered Mary Poppins goes to the polls, she can show identification and vote - but just once. 
   "Third, grant money will be available to pay for photo identification for those who don't have one or can't afford one. The Election Assistance Commission will conduct a pilot program for use of indelible ink at the polls. Reminiscent of the Iraqi elections on January 30th. We were all moved by the pictures we saw from the Iraqi elections of voters proudly showing their ink-stained fingers. Aside from being an act of national pride, it was also an act to ensure that all those who voted did so only once. 
   "Lastly, the 2004 elections saw new tactics which must be addressed by new criminal penalties for buying and conspiring to buy voter registrations. Further, the destruction or damaging of property with intent to impede voting is something that must be prosecuted. 
   "Again, I am proud to have been the Senate Republican sponsor of the Help America Vote Act of 2002 and believe it has and will continue to improve the conduct of elections in this country. But much more needs to be done. The Voter Protection Act of 2005 builds upon that important piece of legislation to combat voter fraud and ensure the integrity of the entire election process."
 
 