BIPARTISAN SEN. MCCONNELL AMENDMENT WILL PROVIDE NEEDED FUNDING FOR TROOPS IN IRAQ, AFGHANISTAN
  U.S. Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell delivered the following remarks on the Senate floor Tuesday regarding the McConnell troop funding amendment:  
   "A lot has changed since last December. At this time last year, America and its allies were desperate for good news out of Iraq. 
   "The security situation was dire -- and getting worse. An all-out civil war threatened to undermine the heroic work of U.S. forces and frustrate the hopes of millions of Iraqis. 
   "Then General Petraeus stepped forward with a bold new plan. We confirmed General Petraeus for what seemed like one last effort at salvaging the mission, and we sent him the troops and the funds he said he needed to carry out the job. 
   "Since the implementation of the Petraeus Plan, we've marveled at the improving security situation in and around Baghdad. Attacks on U.S. troops are down. Civilian casualties in Baghdad are down 75 percent. Iraqi refugees are streaming back over the borders. And outside the cities, pragmatic local leaders are forging agreements among themselves and with U.S. forces to ensure greater security. 
   "There is simply no question that on the military and tactical levels, the Petraeus Plan has been a tremendous success. 
   "So as we stand here today, we have new hope that U.S. servicemen and women are beginning to return home with a sense of achievement. 
   "A lot has changed in Iraq. And here in Washington, we should take notice. 
   "Before us is an amendment sent to us by the House of Representatives that underfunds our troops, and only provides for those fighting in Afghanistan. It leaves the troops in Iraq to fend for themselves. This is unacceptable. 
   "Even those of us who have disagreed on this war have always agreed on one thing: troops in the field will not be left without the resources they need. 
   "So I offer an amendment that provides for our men and women in uniform in Iraq and Afghanistan because I believe it's our duty to protect all those who are putting their lives on the line. 
   "Let me be crystal clear: If this amendment does not pass in its current form, the underlying bill does not become law. 
   "The Petraeus Plan provides for a gradual reduction of our forces, and a transition of the mission. Iraqi security forces will eventually shift from partnering with Coalition forces to leading forces on their own. We must not impose an arbitrary timeline for withdrawal or accelerate this timeline at an unrealistic pace. 
   "This is a moment of real hope for our nation and for the people of Iraq. And it's a moment of real urgency in the Senate. 
   "We need to pass this spending bill, with troop funds, without any strings and without any further delay."
 
 