SEN. MCCONNELL SECURES $360 MILLION IN FUNDING FOR CHEMICAL DEMILITARIZATION PROGRAM
  U.S. Senate Majority Whip Mitch McConnell announced today that he secured $360 million in funding for the Assembled Chemical Weapons Alternatives (ACWA) program. McConnell's requests were included in two appropriations bills - the FY'07 Defense and FY'07 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs (VA) - which were cleared by subcommittees today. The funding in both bills is expected to be approved by the Senate Appropriations Committee this week and will then go to the full Senate for consideration.  
   Senator McConnell fought to keep the President's budget request of $350 million for ACWA in the bills and also secured an additional $10 million in the Military Construction and VA Appropriations bill. Of the additional money, a major portion is likely to go towards chemical weapons disposal efforts at the Blue Grass Army Depot. McConnell also secured provisions in both bills which would prevent ACWA funds from being diverted to non-ACWA sites. 
   Earlier this year, the House of Representatives cut $40 million from the ACWA program in its version of FY '07 military construction bill. 
   "I am pleased my request for funding for the Blue Grass Army Depot was approved," said McConnell. "This additional funding will help hasten the day when Kentucky citizens no longer have to live with deadly chemical weapons being stored in their midst. I remain committed to ensuring that these heinous weapons are disposed of as safely and quickly as possible." 
   Last year, the Department of Defense's request for ACWA was $33 million, which reflected the program having been put on "caretaker" status by DOD in the fall of 2004. Following Senator McConnell's intervention last year, which prevented ACWA monies from being spent at other sites, forced DOD to begin spending funds for disposal efforts at the two ACWA sites and provided $20 million in extra funding for the program, disposal efforts were revived. In a letter to DOD last August, McConnell strongly urged the Department to request between $300 - $400 million for ACWA in its FY '07 budget in order to build on the gains made earlier in 2005. DOD responded by requesting approximately $350 million for FY '07, nearly $317 million above the $33 million that was requested the previous year.
 
 