SEN. MCCONNELL ISSUES STATEMENT ON FY 2005 BUDGET REQUEST FOR HIV/AIDS
  Sen. Mitch McConnell today delivered the following statement during a Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee hearing on the FY'05 budget request for HIV/AIDS: 
   "Today, HIV/AIDS is recognized as a significant transnational crisis that poses an immediate and growing threat to social, economic and political stability across the globe. While it may be expedient to frame the pandemic in geopolitical terms, it is far more difficult - indeed horrific - to comprehend the devastation of the virus in personal, human terms.  
   "The statistics are staggering. As many as 46 million people live with HIV/AIDS today, and an estimated 20 million have already perished from complications of the virus. Last year alone, 5 million people became newly infected, and 3 million died from AIDS complications. 
   "This viral holocaust creates widows and orphans and destroys entire families. It is especially brutal to youth, and saps the hope and promise of future generations. If left unchecked in developing countries, it is conceivable that HIV/AIDS will destroy entire societies, economies and political systems. 
   "Under President Bush's leadership, America has significantly increased its contributions to combating this disease. Over a five-year period, we will contribute a total of $15 billion to HIV/AIDS programs and activities. Fifteen countries, primarily in Africa and the Caribbean, are the main focus of this initiative, although funding will continue to some 100 countries where we have ongoing programs, and to the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. 
   "There are no shortages to the challenges in successfully managing this disease. Some argue that we - and other nations - should spend more on HIV/AIDS, and that we shortchange the cause by not providing the $3 billion authorized by Congress in the AIDS bill. 
   "Perhaps America should spend more, but that will ultimately be determined by fiscal constraints. I would point out, however, that last year's budget request for HIV/AIDS programs exceeded the total amount provided from fiscal years 1993 through 2001. Further, the President's plan gradually increases spending over the five-year period so that beginning in FY 2006, the budget request exceeds $3 billion and tops nearly $4 billion in FY 2008. 
   "Funding alone is not enough. To stem the tide of HIV/AIDS, nations must have committed leadership, the most basic health care delivery systems, and the capacity to absorb substantial assistance targeted toward the health and welfare of all people - regardless of ethnic, tribal, political, gender, or religious affiliation. 
   "It will be an uphill battle. Of the 12 focus countries included in the Transparency International Corruption Perception Index 2003, only one - Botswana - is above a half-way mark of 5. Nine countries rated below a three. In 2003, Freedom House scored only four focus counties as "free" - 7 were rated "partly free" and three "not free". 
   "A 'business as usual' approach by focus countries will only translate into more lost lives and greater tragedy for millions of people. Many stand ready to help, including such faith-based organization as Lott-Carey International (LCI). I strongly encourage the Coordinator's office to use the experience and indigenous contacts that LCI and other groups bring to this effort. 
   "Let me close with brief comments on Burma and South Africa - countries which represent the range of freedom in the developing world. In Burma, a military junta daily abuses and denies the rights of its citizenry, including access to even the most basic health care and medicines. While we may not accurately know the extent of the HIV/AIDS infection rate in Burma, we do know that the pandemic cannot be addressed by an illegitimate regime that places the welfare of the people far below the acquisition of Russian MiGs, nuclear reactors and money laundering. 
   "In South Africa, a country whose journey toward democracy has been nothing but inspirational, the lack of political will by the Mbeki government to address the HIV/AIDS pandemic head-on has wasted precious time in stemming the tide. South Africa's heroes are the health care workers at the grassroots level; the current government must be willing to partner with them - and available science - to combat the disease. 
   "It is my hope that in the future President Mbeki will be as vigilant on this issue as both our witnesses here today."
 
 