SENATE REJECTS MOVING GITMO DETAINEES TO U.S. SOIL
  The United States Senate on Thursday overwhelming rejected a proposal to move terrorist detainees from Guantanamo Bay in Cuba to the United States. Republican Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) authored the amendment, which passed 94-3.  
   The McConnell amendment states that detainees "including senior members of al Qaeda, should not be released to American society" or transferred into "facilities in American communities and neighborhoods." 
   "Some in Congress have actually proposed that we require the President to move terrorist detainees held at Guantanamo Bay to the continental United States and keep them here. That means moving them into facilities in cities and small towns across America in states like California and Illinois and Kentucky. Well I can guarantee you that my constituents don't want terrorists housed in their backyards in Ft. Knox, Ft. Wright or anywhere else in the Commonwealth. I know I don't," McConnell said. "The Senate has now overwhelmingly expressed its view that it's better for the safety and security of the American people that terrorists at Guantanamo Bay are not moved into American communities. And it says to the American people that the United States Senate does not want these terrorists housed on our soil, in our communities." 
   The McConnell amendment does not prohibit the closure of Guantanamo Bay or moving terrorists elsewhere. But the Senate is now on record as opposing any movement of high-threat terrorist detainees to the United States. 
   The McConnell Amendment does not express a view on whether the detention facility at Guantanamo Bay should be modified, or whether it should be closed or remain open. 
   The McConnell Amendment states that: 
   "It is the sense of the Senate that detainees housed at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, including senior members of al Qaeda, should not be released into American society, nor should they be transferred stateside into facilities in American communities and neighborhoods."
 
 