SEN. MCCONNELL ISSUES STATEMENT ON BURMA RESOLUTION
  Sen. Mitch McConnell delivered the following statement today on his resolution, H.J. Res 52, the Burma Trade Resolution: 
   "Mr. President, I want to say a few words on Burma before the Senate votes to renew import sanctions against the repressive State Peace and Development Council (SPDC).  
   "First, these sanctions are absolutely necessary. If you don't want to take my word for it, here's what Thai journalist Kavi Chongkittavorn wrote in a recent opinion piece in that country's newspaper The Nation: 
   "Whatever momentum was gained from the international calls to free Aung San Suu Kyi and to allow for democracy in Burma on the occasion of the opposition leader's recent 60th birthday must be sustained at all costs. The outpouring of support from presidents, prime ministers, intellectuals, Nobel laureates and activists demonstrated one simple truth - the Lady matters. Contrary to conventional wisdom, perpetuated by junta apologists and other vested interests in the past five years, that the long-suffering opposition leader of the National League for Democracy has been the main stumbling block of progress because of her attitude toward political processes and national reconciliation, Suu Kyi is in fact loved and respected by the Burmese and other people around the world." 
   "Mr. President, he had it right, the Lady matters. 
   "Under the paranoid misrule of Burmese hardliner Than Shwe, the human rights and dignity of the Burmese people continue to be grossly abused. The litany of atrocities - from the use of rape as a weapon of war to the murder, torture and intimidation of political activists - are well-known and well-documented. It seems as though the only ones denying that a problem exists in Burma are the very miscreants responsible for creating and propagating the problem. 
   "Second, with the SPDC scheduled to assume chairmanship of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) next year, the time has come for ASEAN to fish or cut bait. 
   "Again, listen to what others from that region are saying, such as former deputy prime minister of Malaysia Anwar Ibrahim who wrote last month in the Asian Wall Street Journal: 
   "... it is now evident that constructive engagement [by ASEAN with the SPDC] has not only failed to bring about democratization, but was never seriously intended to encourage any move in this direction. Instead, as far as ASEAN is concerned, the policy amounts to a subconscious manifestation of collective guilt." 
   "I would offer that the absence of Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice at the recent security meeting in Laos portends America's involvement with ASEAN should the SPDC be at the helm. The difference might be that no American official attends ASEAN events in her stead. 
   "In case ASEAN members have not noticed, President Bush is a stalwart supporter of freedom in Burma. 
   "As is Secretary Rice. 
   "As is the U.S. Congress. 
   "My colleagues may recall that 14 Nobel laureates wrote an open letter on the occasion of Suu Kyi's 60th birthday, which applauded "those countries that have imposed sanctions to deny the regime the wealth it craves to sustain itself" and reminded the world that "Burma was admitted to ASEAN to lift its people up, not to drag the organization down." ASEAN members should feel similarly - how could they not? 
   "Finally, the world must press for the immediate and unconditional release of Burmese democracy activists Aung San Suu Kyi and all prisoners of conscience. 
   "Suu Kyi, the National League for Democracy and Burma's ethnic minorities have an indisputable role to play in the peaceful reconciliation of that country's myriad problems. This role cannot, and will not, be fulfilled so long as these courageous individuals remain behind prison walls or in the gun sights of SPDC goons. 
   "Earlier today we had an opportunity to hear India's Prime Minister address a joint meeting of Congress. It is my hope that India will do more to push Burma's junta into negotiating with the NLD and ethnic minorities for a peaceful transfer of power to the 1990 democratically elected government. India must make clear that they choose democracy over dictatorship in Burma. 
   "I thank my colleagues for their continued support for freedom and justice in Burma, particularly those in the unofficial Burma Caucus - Senators Feinstein, McCain, Frist, Reid, and Leahy, to name but a few. 
   "To those on the front lines of this nonviolent struggle, know that America has stood shoulder to shoulder with you these many years. We will continue to do so for as long as it takes to secure democracy in Burma. 
   "Mr. President, the Lady matters."
 
 