SEN. MCCONNELL URGES COLLEAGUES TO SUPPORT BUNNING AMENDMENT ON COAL-TO-LIQUID FUELS
  U.S. Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell urged his colleagues today to support Sen. Jim Bunning's amendment to establish a program to help support and promote clean, coal-to-liquid fuels. Below are his floor remarks as prepared for delivery.  
   "I rise today to speak in support of my good friend from Kentucky, Senator Bunning, and his amendment with the Senator from New Mexico to establish a program to help support and promote clean, coal-to-liquid fuels. 
   "Focusing more on coal-to-liquid fuels will benefit our economy and our national security. 
   "Coal is a vital part of America's energy production, and coal is a vital part of Kentucky's economy and history. The coal industry creates over 60,000 jobs in my state, including approximately 15,000 coal miners. 
   "Over half of the country's electricity is generated by coal, and coal constitutes over 90 percent of America's fossil-fuel resources. 
   "That means the coal we can mine in this country alone would be enough to supply our nation for more than 250 years. What Saudi Arabia is to oil, America is to coal. 
   "Therefore, it would irresponsible of us, not to mention downright foolish, not to invest in technology to take advantage of this vital natural resource. That's why I want to thank my friend Senator Bunning for his leadership on this issue. 
   "Greater use of coal-to-liquid fuels will benefit our environment by reducing emissions of sulfur dioxide, nitrous oxide, particulate matter and other pollutants, as compared to conventional fuels. 
   "The Bunning amendment also requires that coal-to-liquid fuels under this program reduce greenhouse-gas emissions by 20 percent relative to gasoline. 
   "And greater use of coal-to-liquid fuels, which we can generate right here at home, will mean less dependence on foreign sources of oil. 
   "Right now, America gets 60 percent of its oil from foreign countries, many of whom do not have our best interests at heart. 
   "Passing this amendment will mean greater energy independence and strengthened national security for America. 
   "I want to commend my good friend and fellow Senator from Kentucky, Jim Bunning, for his hard work and dedication to the coal producers and miners of Kentucky and America. 
   "This amendment is the right thing to do for them, for our economy and for our national security, and I urge my colleagues to support it."
 
 