SEN. MCCONNELL SPEAKS ON HOUSING BILL
  U.S. Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell delivered the following remarks on the Senate floor Tuesday regarding the bipartisan agreement reached for the basis of a housing bill:  
   "The Majority Leader and I have had good conversations this morning and a few moments ago. We have reached an agreement on how to go forward on the Housing Bill. 
   "And that agreement is as follows: that Senator Dodd, the Chairman of the Banking Committee, and Senator Shelby, the ranking member, would come together after we invoke cloture on the motion to proceed and come up with a bipartisan substitute to be offered as an amendment to the bill upon which we're about to invoke cloture to proceed. And that would be the underlying bill that would enjoy the confidence and support of the two leaders of the Banking Committee. 
   "Most of my conference is very comfortable with that. We understand fully there will be amendments after that, but that will give us an opportunity to get off on a bipartisan footing, reminiscent of the good work that we were able to do earlier this year not only on the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Bill but also on the economic stimulus package, where we were able to come together and by a significant bipartisan majority pass legislation. 
   "We all know we have problems with housing in this country. Most of us believe that we need to enact legislation to try to improve this situation. Many of these proposals are supported by people on both sides of the aisle. And so this would give us a chance to begin in a way that is comforting to both sides before we open the process to amendments. 
   "The Majority Leader has also assured me there will be no filling of the tree or employing any of the other techniques that the majority is certainly free to do but which have a way of kind of locking down the process on the minority side. 
   "So, this has been an interesting discussion leading up to a process by which I think we can go forward and hopefully get something important for the country accomplished here in the Senate this week. 
   "I want to thank the Majority Leader for his approach to this. I think it's entirely appropriate and gives us a good opportunity to move forward."
 
 