SENS. BOND, MCCONNELL INTRODUCE NEEDED TERRORISM SURVEILLANCE MODERNIZATION
  U.S. Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell and Senator Christopher Bond, Ranking Member of the Senate Intelligence Committee, introduced an updated terrorist surveillance law Wednesday to modernize the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, and called for its passage before Congress adjourns for August recess. Leader McConnell delivered the following remarks on the Senate floor Wednesday. 
   "Yesterday the Director of National Intelligence came to Capitol Hill and implored Congress to pass vital legislation to protect Americans before we leave for recess. He was echoing the warnings of the entire intelligence Community, which has assured us that the threat is real and that the need is urgent.
   "The latest National Intelligence Estimate makes clear that the greatest terrorist threat to the United States is Al-Qaeda. Their intent to attack us is undiminished since 9/11. They've gained recruits and strength in the Middle East. They continue to adapt and improve their capabilities. And we must continue to adapt and improve our ability to detect their movements and their plots swiftly, with every tool of intelligence we have.
   "One of the most effective tools we have in this important work is our electronic surveillance program. Ever since the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, or FISA, was written in 1978, the principle has been clear: terrorists operating abroad and plotting attacks against us are fair targets of surveillance.
   "But over the years, advances in technology have created an absurd and unintended consequence: intelligence analysts are now required to seek a warrant for tracking the communications of terrorists. The original intent of FISA was to give us access to terrorists, but its effect has been to slow that access down. In a significant number of cases, intelligence professionals are now forced to obtain court orders to collect foreign intelligence concerning foreign targets located on foreign soil.
   "The targeting of a foreign terrorist overseas should not require a FISA warrant. That was never the intention of the original legislation.
   "The facts here are not in dispute: our nation faces an alarming intelligence gap, a situation in which the Intelligence Community every day is missing a significant portion of what we should be getting in order to protect the American people. We should not adjourn until we have closed this gap. We must act quickly, in a bipartisan manner, and let the appropriate committees come back and review FISA and other matters related to the legislation in a more comprehensive manner.
   "We should not return in September knowing that we have failed in our duty, and we pray that we don't have cause to regret our inaction. Let there be no doubt: if we had had the foresight in August of 2001 to enact a law that would have exposed the plot that was being hatched against us then, the vote to approve that law would have been cast unanimously and without hesitation. None of us would have shrunk from that duty. Six years later, that duty remains.
   "There is little that we do here in the Senate that can immediately and decisively improve the security of this country. But by passing a FISA modernization bill that the President can sign before we go home for recess, we will have done just that. We need to act on this legislation now. We should not adjourn until we have closed this gap, until we have fixed this outdated law."
 
 