SEN. MCCONNELL ISSUES STATEMENT ON INVESTIGATION OF CRASH OF COMAIR FLIGHT 5191
  U.S. Senate Majority Whip Mitch McConnell delivered the following remarks today from the Senate floor on the investigation of the crash of Comair Flight 5191:  
   "The people of Kentucky are still reeling from a terrible tragedy that struck less than one month ago. On August 27, Comair Flight 5191 crashed shortly after takeoff at Blue Grass Airport in Lexington, Kentucky. Forty-nine people perished. 
   "Grief has descended on scores of families and into countless lives because of this devastating event. I know I am joined by all Kentuckians in extending sympathies and prayers to the families and loved ones of the victims. 
   "As we continue to grieve, people throughout the Commonwealth are looking for answers. The National Transportation Safety Board has begun an investigation into the cause of this crash, and what recommendations can be made to improve future aviation safety. 
   "I think we have an obligation to make sure their investigation proceeds smoothly and thoroughly and concludes in a timely manner, so that all of the questions can be answered as completely as possible. I've been personally briefed by the NTSB on the status of the investigation and intend to follow it very closely. 
   "I spoke to the President about the crash, and he offered the entire state his prayers and is devoting the resources of the federal government towards the investigation. 
   "I also expressed concerns to the Transportation Secretary nominee, Mary Peters. She is aware of our concerns and the need for a thorough investigation conducted in a timely manner. 
   "She will have the opportunity to update the committee as well. We also need to hear what changes need to be made to our aviation system to prevent catastrophes in the future. 
   "It's impossible to overstate the sorrow that has draped over so many lives in the Commonwealth of Kentucky. Most of the passengers of Flight 5191 were from my state, and in some parts of the state, it is rare not to know someone who knew one of the victims. 
   "As Kentucky continues to heal, we will take a deep breath, refrain from jumping to conclusions, and finish a thorough and complete investigation. 
   "Kentuckians have drawn together during this crisis to lend each other strength. I'm proud of the outpouring of aid and volunteerism that the residents of the Bluegrass State have shown their neighbors. Grief will be there for a long time to come. But sympathy and support will be there too."
 
 