SEN. MCCONNELL ISSUES STATEMENT ON NOMINATIONS TO SIXTH CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
  Sen. Mitch McConnell delivered the following remarks on the Senate floor today on the nominations of Henry Saad, David McKeague and Richard Griffin to the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals:
   "I rise today in support of the nominations of Henry Saad, David McKeague and Richard Griffin to the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals. 
   "As this chart shows, the Sixth Circuit covers Michigan, Ohio, Kentucky, and Tennessee. There are 16 seats on the Sixth Circuit.
   "But for the last two years, the Sixth Circuit has been trying to function with 25% of its seats empty. That vacancy rate is-as it has been-the highest vacancy rate in the Nation. Not surprisingly, the Judicial Conference has declared all four of these vacant seats to be "judicial emergencies."
   "Now, for the last three years, I have taken to the floor to decry the crushing burden under which the Sixth Circuit operates.
   "The years change, but one seemingly immutable fact remains: the Sixth Circuit remains the slowest circuit in the Nation by far.
   "According to the Administrative Office of the Courts, last year the Sixth Circuit was a full 60% slower than the national average.
   "According to the AOC, the national average for disposing of an appeal is 10.5 months. But in the Sixth Circuit, it takes almost 17 months to decide an appeal (16.8 months).
   "That means that in other circuits, if you file your appeal at the beginning of the year, you get your decision around Halloween. But in the Sixth Circuit, if you file your appeal at the same time, you get your decision after the following Memorial Day-over a half year later.
   "And if you can believe it, each year the disparity between the Sixth Circuit and its sister circuits gets worse.
   "In 2001 and 2002, the Sixth Circuit was the slowest circuit in the country, just like last year. In those years, the average time for decision was 15.3 and 16.0 months, respectively. But last year the delay jumped to almost 17 months.
   "So, clearly, Mr. President, my constituents and the other residents of the Sixth Circuit are suffering more and more as the years go by.
   "What is the reason for this sorry state of affairs? An intra-delegation dispute from years ago- when nearly a quarter of the current Senate wasn't even here. Nor, I might add, was the current President around for that dispute either. He, too, has nothing to do with it.
   "This dispute drags on year after year. As I understand it, although only two seats were involved in this dispute, six nominees, including four circuit nominees, continue to be bottled up.
   "Now, I don't know whose fault it was. But I do know that neither the 4 million people in Kentucky, nor the 6 million people in Tennessee, nor the 11million people in Ohio-nor their Senators-were any part of it.
   "They are all suffering for it, though, as are the 10 million people from Michigan.
   "The Michigan legislature has in fact passed a resolution calling on us, the United States Senate, to confirm these nominees. I ask consent that a copy of this resolution from the Michigan State Senate be placed in the record.
   "That is 31 million people, Mr. President, who continue to suffer because of the Democrats refusal to confirm any of these four Michigan nominees to the Sixth Circuit.
   "Indeed, two of the seats we're talking about were not even involved in this dispute.
   "President Clinton NEVER nominated anyone to the seat to which Henry Saad was nominated (vacancy arose on 1/1/00).
   "And the seat to which David McKeague was nominated did not even become vacant until the current Bush Administration (vacancy arose on 8/15/01).
   "So what the senior and junior senators from Michigan seek to do is hold up one-fourth of an entire circuit because of a past intra-delegation dispute about two seats, the genesis of which occurred several years ago.
   "As to disputes on judicial nominees, the senators from Michigan do not have a monopoly on disappointment. There are several Republican nominees who were nominated by George H.W. Bush, who waited a year or more for a hearing, and who never got one. I note Sixth Circuit nominee John Smietanka, D.C. Circuit nominee John Roberts and Fourth Circuit nominee Terry Boyle, just to name a few.
   "The remedy for disappointment is not to take out your frustration on the populace of an entire circuit. Nor is it to demand that a President cede his constitutional power to another branch. It is to do what this President has done: re-nominate the person when your party is in the Oval Office.
   "Let's be clear. We are not talking about any particular problems with the nominees, including Judge Saad, who would be the first Arab-American on any federal circuit court and who has been endorsed by both the Chamber of Commerce and the United Auto Workers.
   "Quite frankly, it wouldn't matter who from Michigan the President put in the slot: if his name were Henry Ford rather than Henry Saad the result would be the same-my colleagues from Michigan would filibuster the nominee.
   "Why? Because the Michigan Senators didn't get to pick Judge Saad or other Michigan nominees to the Sixth Circuit.
   "What we're talking about, then, is senators wanting to adorn themselves with the power of co-nomination.
   "Let's get back to first principles. Democrat Senators do not get to pick circuit court judges in Republican Administrations. In fact, Republican Senators-myself included-do not get to pick circuit court judges in Republican Administrations.
   "The Constitution gives the President, and the President alone, the power to nominate. It is a presidential prerogative, and we shouldn't rewrite the Constitution to allow Senators- especially those of the opposite party-to nominate judges.
   "By tradition, the President may consult with individual senators. But the tradition of "consultation" does not transform individual Senators into co-Presidents.
   "The President is not required to share his constitutional power with senators, or with a "non-partisan" commission for that matter.
   "We've started a new precedent around here by filibustering judges; this is something that I and the vast majority of the Republican caucus opposed during the Clinton Administration and refused to engage in, although Republicans had profound differences with many Clinton nominees.
   "In fact, 95% of the current senators who NEVER voted for a judicial filibuster are Republicans.
   "Our Democrat friends have started this troubling precedent. They have filibustered 7 nominees and are now approaching double digits.
   "If my Democrat friends want to set another precedent, namely that Senators in opposite parties get to pick a President's circuit court nominees, I have news for you: this precedent may well be used when there's a Democrat in the Oval Office-whether that's next year or next decade.
   "In closing, I don't get to pick Republican circuit nominees, and I don't think Democrats should get to do so in a Republican Administration either. That's the President's job.
   "The Senate may establish a contrary precedent today. But if it does, I and other Republican Senators may invoke it the next time there's a Democrat in the White House. So I urge my Democrat friends to be wary of the steps they are taking because they are leading us down a dangerous path from which there may be no return."
 
 