REPUBLICAN LEADER PREVIEWS STATE OF THE UNION ADDRESS
  In advance of President Bush's State of the Union Address, U.S. Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell called on his colleagues to build on their early legislative successes by working together to address a number of issues that are important to the American people. 
   In the State of the Union Address, President Bush will address the big issues facing our Nation, including terrorism and homeland security, energy independence, affordable health care, comprehensive immigration reform, economic security and saving Social Security.  
   "Like the President, I believe that now is the time for solving the big issues; divided government is often the best time for solutions to complex problems. Issues like reforming Social Security, energy independence, and immigration reform and border security demand action. And on the issue of Iraq, it is my hope, and my challenge to my colleagues, that our debate will be based on what is best for the future of our nation and for Iraq, not what's best for a political party or presidential campaign." 
   Terrorism and Homeland Security 
   "America has not seen a domestic terrorist attack since we committed ourselves to the global war on terror. That is not an accident, some quirk of fate. Rather, it is due to the hard work of spotting and disrupting threats before they strike. 
   "The indisputable success of these efforts is the greatest argument we have to continue to support them - and to make sure those who secure the homeland are fully equipped to continue the outstanding work they have done. 
   "This policy has worked - and we must ensure that it continues to work by giving the men and women who carry out that mission every day all the tools they need." 
   Energy Independence 
   "Our nation's security depends on secure borders and a strong fighting force. It also depends on energy independence. So we must continue to work hard to decrease our reliance on foreign sources of energy. 
   "We laid a solid foundation during the last Congress, with passage of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 and, just last month, with the enactment of the Gulf of Mexico Energy Security Act. Both measures were passed with bipartisan support, and both will decrease our dangerous dependence on foreign oil and gas. 
   "There is more that we can and should do both to increase domestic supply and decrease our demand for foreign energy. The United States has an abundance of coal and remains a leader in nuclear technology. We should focus attention on using these natural resources safely, cleanly, and efficiently." 
   Affordable Health Care 
   "This Congress needs to work together to make health care more affordable and more accessible for American families. One way to do that is to change the current tax code. By allowing Americans to take a generous standard deduction for health insurance, we will encourage more participation - and drive down prices in the bargain. This, in turn, would allow more people to buy their health insurance directly, giving them the freedom to control where, how, and how much, they spend." 
   Comprehensive Immigration Reform 
   "Immigration and border security are some of the most pressing issues of our day. We should act on it soon. Americans demand it. We have a duty to deliver. 
   "Americans are generous, eager to welcome strangers and happy when they prosper. Yet we know the blessings of liberty depend on respect for the law and a common national culture. We can ensure both even as we welcome those who come here looking for a better life. 
   "Laws that are generous need not be lax. And a country that is not secure at its borders is not secure in its laws. Border security and other law enforcement professionals must have the tools they need to keep our borders - and our laws - strong." 
   Economic Security 
   "Fiscal responsibility is more than a campaign slogan. If we are serious about reform, we must take the steps necessary to connect fiscal rhetoric with fiscal reality. I call on colleagues to pass Senator Judd Gregg's Second Look at Wasteful Spending Act, and use those savings to help balance the budget." 
   Saving Social Security 
   "And finally, Social Security is another issue on which Americans demand action. More than 77 million Americans will retire over the next two decades, leaving two workers to support each retiree. In 1950, there were 16 workers for every beneficiary. By doing nothing, we will essentially be asking young people to work twice as hard or seniors to live half as well. We should face the situation head on instead, and make sure this program exists well into the future, by making the reforms necessary to save Social Security." 
   Senate Republican Leader McConnell will have further comments following the President's State of the Union Address.
 
 