SEN. MCCONNELL ISSUES STATEMENT ON STABILITY IN IRAQ
  Sen. Mitch McConnell delivered the following speech on the Senate floor today on the liberation, stabilization, and reconstruction of Iraq:
   "Mr. President, the Kennedy Amendment is little more than an effort to undermine the President and further the myth that our efforts to bring stability and democracy to Iraq are somehow unilateralist. 
   "Mr. President, it is past time for some Senators to stop pretending that we are "going it alone" in Iraq. Neither the liberation of Iraq nor our efforts today could be characterized by anyone with a rudimentary understanding of mathematics as unilateral.
   "To begin with, the U.S. was merely part of a coalition of 19 countries that toppled Saddam Hussein and liberated Iraq. In contrast, the United States joined 16 other nations during World War II.
   "19 is more than one. It is more than a couple. It is more than a few. It is a lot. 19 countries are more than most Americans will visit during their lifetimes.
   "Mr. President, the liberation of Iraq was less unilateral than the French opposition to it.
   "Since liberation, the Administration has worked to bring more nations into Iraq to help stabilize and reconstruct that country. Currently, 34 nations are providing military and security forces to assist the Iraqis in defending their newly free country from the insurgents and terrorists.
   "The international commitment to Iraq has grown. Today the South Korean President announced that his country would push ahead with the deployment of 3,000 soldiers despite the savage beheading of a South Korean citizen in Iraq this week.
   "Although the Senior and Junior Senators from Massachusetts have both diminished the role that NATO countries are playing in Iraq, it is worth noting that 17 of these countries are members of NATO.
   "NATO is involved in Iraq. It is also involved in Afghanistan, and both efforts are integral to our global war against terrorism.
   "Currently, 6,000 NATO troops from 25 nations are participating in the International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) in Afghanistan. There are over 8,000 foreign troops there, representing over half of the 15,000 non-Afghan forces in Afghanistan.
   "The President's critics argue that NATO should be more involved, that the international community should be more involved.
   "Mr. President, I wish we had more help in Iraq. I wish we had more help in Afghanistan. And I applaud the President's recent efforts to secure passage of a new Security Council resolution that endorses the new Iraqi government's democratic transition and to encourage NATO to provide greater assistance.
   "Predictably, Jacques Chirac opposed a greater NATO role. And given that NATO operates on the basis of consensus, Mr. Chirac's unilateral opposition will likely block NATO-authorized deployments.
   "There are two principal barriers to greater international participation:
   "First, a number of countries did not want democracy to take hold in Iraq.
   "Some nations are threatened by the march of freedom. Others had financial interests in the former Hussein regime. Some nations would not contribute troops unless we were to cede control in Iraq to the UN, a prospect that most Americans recognize as a dangerous fantasy. At such a price, their assistance is not worth the tremendous risk that placing American security and Iraqi democracy in the hands of the UN entails.
   "Second, many countries that want to help lack the capabilities to do so. As appreciative as we are of NATO's contributions, we are cognizant of its limitations.
   "European nations spend on average 2% of their GDP on defense. Of that money, a majority is spent on personnel costs and benefits. Relatively little is spent to modernize or sustain the equipment, weapons systems, and logistics capabilities of NATO militaries.
   "Many NATO countries cannot generate sufficient forces or sustain their deployment outside of the European theatre. They lack the weapons, aircraft, logistics, transportations, and supply capabilities that the United States has.
   "Because of these limitations, many nations have decided to contribute to Iraq's future by providing economic, humanitarian, or other forms of assistance to liberated Iraqis.
   "According to the Department of the Treasury, the ten largest donors to Iraq have offered nearly $8 Billion in assistance. In addition, 29 donors have offered hundreds of millions more in financial aid, and 16 more have offered in-kind assistance.
   "Even if significantly more international troops could be deployed to Iraq, their deployment would not be a substitute for the long-term security needs of Iraq. These needs can only be met by an Iraqi security force.
   "There are clearly problems and challenges. The Iraqi security forces need training and equipment, and we will be providing it. We will be recruiting, training, and equipping Iraqis to defend Iraq from external attack, and from internal subversion. These Iraqis, far more than foreign troops, will determine the future of Iraq.
   "The long-term solution to Iraqi security does not lie with the U.S. military. It does not lie with the UN or NATO. It lies with the Iraqi people. And we must be committed to supporting them in their efforts to bring stability and security to their own country.
   "I want to commend the soldiers of the U.S. military and those of the 32 other nations currently serving in Iraq, for their brave efforts to bring peace to a troubled land."
 
 