SEN. MCCONNELL ISSUES STATEMENT ON PROGRESS TOWARD PERMANENT IRAQI GOVERNMENT
  Senate Majority Whip Mitch McConnell today delivered the following statement on the progress toward a permanent Iraqi government: 
   "Mr. President, freedom took another important step forward this past Saturday in Iraq. 
   "Last December, millions of free and brave Iraqi citizens defied the terrorists' death threats and went to the polls to elect a Parliament. Since that election, Iraqi political leaders have been hard at work forging a government that reflects the will of the Iraqi people.  
   "This Saturday, we were finally able to celebrate the good news: The Iraqis have made major progress towards achieving that goal. Iraqi political leaders reached an important agreement for the top leadership posts for a national unity government. 
   "Iraq will retain the experienced hand of Jalal Talabani as president. And the new prime minister, Jawad al-Maliki, appears to be a reformer respected by all sides who will hopefully have the credibility and authority to shape a strong government with the power to take on the major issues facing Iraq. 
   "The new Iraqi leadership has the will of the people at its back. They understand that democracy requires the courage to reach consensus. Over the next 30 days, they must fill the remaining slots of the cabinet, and begin to address the challenges that grip their nation. 
   "Freedom and stability in Iraq is bad news for the terrorists. A stable, strong Iraq will unite its people against continued violence. A stable, strong Iraq will be an ally in the War on Terror, and a beacon of democracy in the Middle East. A stable, strong Iraq, that cracks down on the terrorists in its midst, will make the region and the world more secure. 
   "Aside from the Iraqis themselves, much credit for this triumph in Iraq goes to Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice. Her skillful diplomacy appears to have been a crucial ingredient in breaking the logjam. 
   "Much credit also goes to U.S. Ambassador to Iraq Zalmay Khalilzad for his tireless efforts. And of course, President Bush's continuing resolve to defy terrorism and terrorist-friendly regimes and to support freedom and democracy has inspired and strengthened everyone in this process. 
   "As we celebrate this victory in Iraq, Mr. President, we are mindful that much hard work lies ahead. Terrorist violence in Iraq continues. Some say that the momentum from the three successful elections of last year, each one drawing greater levels of turnout than the one before, has been squandered with the last four months of political bickering. The new Iraqi leaders must be sure not to squander any more by failing to assemble a government in a timely manner. 
   "But though we are cautious, I think we should also be optimistic. America will continue to stand beside Iraq in the days ahead. And I would remind anyone who thinks this new government took too long to form that America also had a rocky start at its beginnings. Thirteen years passed from the Declaration of Independence to the implementation of our Constitution. Freedom, however, is worth the wait. 
   "The incoming prime minister appears to understand that he must form a consensus government, one that must reach out to Iraq's many ethnic and religious groups, as his country begins its journey of democracy. I was heartened by a promise he made this weekend. 
   "Here's what he had to say: 'We are going to form a family that will not be based on sectarian or ethnic backgrounds?.Those who take responsibility in the new government will be representing the people, not their parties.' 
   "Mr. al-Maliki has the right attitude, and that attitude should continue to guide the new government in the days ahead. 
   "Mr. President, I know my colleagues will join me in congratulating the people of Iraq for spurning the terrorists, and continuing down the road to democracy. And most of all, I want to express my profound gratitude for our troops in Iraq. It has been their strength and courage that has made progress on the road to freedom possible."
 
 