SENATE APPROVES SEN. MCCONNELL'S RESOLUTION TO RENEW IMPORT SANCTIONS AGAINST BURMA
  Sen. Mitch McConnell announced today that the Senate, by a vote of 96 to 1, approved his resolution to renew import sanctions against Burma. It now goes to President Bush for his signature.  
   The original sanctions were included in the Burmese Freedom and Democracy Act, which was signed into law by President Bush on July 28, 2003. 
   Senator McConnell made the following remarks today on the Senate floor: 
   "Mr. President, I want to thank my colleagues for again acting swiftly in support of freedom in Burma. 
   "By considering and passing the resolution renewing import sanctions against the illegitimate State Peace and Development Council (SPDC), we match our words of support for the people of Burma with concrete deeds. 
   "The situation in Burma is dire: Suu Kyi and other NLD leaders remain imprisoned; a crackdown on democracy activists continues; and the SPDC's inhumane policies of child and forced labor, rape as a weapon of war, narcotics and human trafficking, and the use of child soldiers remain unchanged. 
   "Despite their worst efforts over the past 14 years, the SPDC has failed to smother the flames of freedom in Burma. I continue to be inspired by reports of activists who bravely and nonviolently defy the junta's illegitimate rule - like the handful arrested last month for distributing pamphlets in several Burmese townships marking the one-year anniversary of the Depayin massacre. 
   "It would be wise for the SPDC to accept the time-tested fact that Suu Kyi and the NLD are not going anywhere. They, and the ethnic minorities, are an integral part of the solution to the Burmese problem. 
   "To wit, the NLD and their supporters made the courageous and correct decision to boycott the sham SPDC-orchestrated constitutional convention last month. I am pleased that international condemnation by the United States, United Nations (U.N.), European Union (E.U.) and regional neighbors of the hollow convention was rightly aimed at the SPDC. The generals in Rangoon made any number of assurances to foreign diplomats that the process would be inclusive. It clearly was not. 
   "This only underscores the imperative to judge the SPDC not by what it says but by what it does. 
   "The convention turned out to be nothing more than a summer camp for SPDC sycophants. According to the Washington Times, the junta required their handpicked delegates to "bathe at reasonable times, avoid junk food and live in self-contained camps where they can enjoy karaoke, movies and golf." 
   "Mr. President, import sanctions by the United States alone will not help facilitate a meaningful reconciliation process in Burma. We need the U.N., E.U., and regional neighbors to fully commit to the cause. This was made clear by the NLD in a recent plea to U.N. General-Secretary Kofi Annan to "take this matter to the Security Council". 
   "The U.N. should help the NLD and the people of Burma by examining the clear and present danger Burma poses to the region. This must include narcotics production and trafficking, the spread of HIV/AIDS throughout the region, the gross human rights violations of the SPDC, the plight of Burmese refugees and IDPs, and alarming reports of the junta's interests in North Korean missiles and Russian nuclear technology. 
   "The E.U. should help the NLD and the Burmese people by examining its sanctions regime and imposing further punitive measures against the junta. I am pleased that our allies in the E.U. recently canceled the upcoming Asia-Europe Meeting (ASEM) dialogue in Brussels over the attendance of the SPDC. The junta has no place at this multilateral table. 
   "Regional neighbors should help the Burmese people by reconsidering the Association of Southeast Asian Nation's (ASEAN) outdated policy of noninterference in the internal affairs of member states. 
   "Asian leaders must recognize the regime for what it is - wholly illegitimate to the people of Burma, the international community and the region. The SPDC's export of illicit drugs and HIV/AIDS is, literally, burying the children of Asia. All of Asia's youth - not only those in Burma - face a future that is undermined by Burmese-spread drugs and disease. 
   "The region cannot ignore the fact of the junta's chairmanship of ASEAN in 2006. There could be no greater loss of face for that association than being under the guidance of the SPDC. 
   "Let me close by thanking my colleagues - all 53 - who joined me in sponsoring the sanctions resolution. I want to recognize, in particular, the efforts of Senators Feinstein and McCain and their respective staffs to support freedom and justice in Burma. The Burmese people have no greater friends in the Senate - or in Washington. I also appreciate the efforts by Senators Grassley and Baucus and their respective staffs to expedite consideration of the legislation. 
   "I would be remiss if I did not note the words of support of the NLD made by former Mongolian Prime Minister Tashika Elbegdorj, the Sam Rainsy Party in Cambodia, and the cross-party Burma Caucus formed by Malaysian parliamentarians. Although they are engaged in their own efforts - and, in some cases, struggles - for democracy and human rights in their respective countries, they stand in solidarity with the people of Burma. 
   "I would encourage other neighbors to find their voice in support of the Suu Kyi and the NLD during these troubling times."
 
 