SEN. MCCONNELL ISSUES STATEMENT ON DREAM ACT
  U.S. Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell delivered the following remarks on the Senate floor Wednesday regarding the DREAM Act:  
   "Mr. President, earlier this year, a bipartisan group of Senators took up the issue of illegal immigration. It was clear from the debate that ensued that there are deeply held beliefs on both sides. It was also apparent that this is not a problem with a simple solution; it is one that requires time and consideration. 
   "And to live up to the expectation of our constituents, it seemed clear to me that Congress must take steps to secure our borders and provide for our national security first. The Senate seemed to get the message, because it voted overwhelmingly in July to dedicate $3 billion in emergency spending to help promote our border and interior security. 
   "I am disappointed my colleagues on the other side of the aisle are not continuing on the bipartisan path of enhancing our security. Instead, they are bringing up a controversial issue with the DREAM Act. This bill is an attempt to put illegal immigrants who graduate from a U.S. high school or obtain their GED on a special path to citizenship. 
   "Though I recognize and appreciate the tremendous contributions to our country made by generations of legal immigrants, I do not believe we should reward illegal behavior. It is our duty to promote respect for America's immigration laws and fairness for U.S. citizens and lawful immigrants. 
   "The DREAM Act fails that test and I will oppose it. 
   "This is not an issue that can be solved in one day, and there are pressing matters which we must address. 
   "Here we are, 4 weeks into the new fiscal year and we have yet to send a single appropriations bill to the President's desk. We should be focused on funding our troops in the field, ensuring our intelligence forces have the tools they need to find and catch terrorists, and holding the line on budget-busting spending bills. 
   "The internet tax moratorium expires in exactly one week. Unless we act soon, internet users across the country will be hit with yet another tax. 
   "And we still have yet to see any plan for addressing the looming middle class tax hike known as the Alternative Minimum Tax. Secretary Paulson told Congress that we must act by early November if we don't want to see 50 million taxpayers ensnared in a confused filing season next year. This deadline, too, is just around the corner. 
   "We still have an enormous amount of work to complete, and we are running out of time. 
   "I urge my colleagues to oppose this attempt to bring up a divisive issue, further delaying the essential, unfinished, business of the Congress. 
   "The Senate has more than enough to do without also tackling issues that divide both this body and the nation."
 
 