SEN. MCCONNELL: AMUL THAPAR HAS 'THE WISDOM AND INTEGRITY TO EXCEL AS A FEDERAL JUDGE'
  U.S. Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell introduced on Wednesday fellow Kentuckian Amul R. Thapar to the Senate Judiciary Committee. Thapar is President Bush's nominee to be Federal Judge of the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Kentucky. McConnell's remarks follow: 
   "Mr. Chairman, Senator Specter, Fellow Senators,  
   "It is my great honor and privilege today to speak on behalf of Amul R. Thapar, the President's nominee to be the next United States District Judge for the Eastern District of Kentucky. 
   "During the course of these hearings, this distinguished committee will learn what I know: Without a doubt, Amul Thapar has the qualifications, the intellect, the integrity and the judicial temperament to make an excellent addition to our federal judiciary. 
   "Amul graduated from the Boalt Hall School of Law of the University of California after receiving his undergraduate degree with high honors from Boston College. 
   "He clerked for Judge Nathaniel R. Jones of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, and Judge S. Arthur Spiegel of the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Ohio. From them, he learned first-hand how a judge presides in a just and fair manner, and with a measured temperament. 
   "An accomplished attorney in private practice, Amul has managed and litigated complex cases on behalf of major corporations in both federal and state courts. 
   "Amul served as an Assistant U.S. Attorney for several years, first in Washington, D.C., from 1999 to 2001 and then in Cincinnati from 2002 to 2006. The greater Cincinnati area includes the suburbs of northern Kentucky, where Amul made his home in these years and strengthened his ties to Kentucky's communities. 
   "As an Assistant U.S. Attorney, he successfully prosecuted a wide variety of federal crimes, with an emphasis on public corruption and homeland security. 
   He also served as an Adjunct Professor at Georgetown University Law Center, and again at the University of Cincinnati College of Law, where he taught Federal Criminal Practice. 
   "After years of experience as an Assistant U.S. Attorney, Amul rose up through the ranks to earn confirmation as the U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Kentucky in early 2006. Since then, as the chief federal law-enforcement officer for half our state, he has easily become one of the most respected U.S. Attorneys in the country. 
   "He was appointed as one of only 17 nationwide to serve on the Attorney General's Advisory Committee of U.S. Attorneys. As the chairman of the Controlled Substances and Asset Forfeiture Subcommittee, Amul has focused on prosecuting prescription narcotics abuse in Kentucky. 
   "Internet safety is also an important issue for Amul. He has traveled throughout his district, speaking to schools, churches and civics groups on the dangers of online child pornography and child exploitation. 
   "He has visited all 67 counties of his district to reach out to state and local law-enforcement, building relationships and working to root out public corruption, vote buying and racketeering. 
   "Amul not only works hard at the office--he volunteers in his community as well. Several years ago he founded a brand-new chapter of the well-respected Street Law program, which sends law-school students into underprivileged high schools to teach the basic underpinnings of our legal system. 
   "Hundreds of students have benefited from Amul's initiative, and the program is larger and more successful than ever after 12 years. 
   "In addition to these myriad accomplishments, Amul has a wonderful family who are all very proud of him and all he has achieved. His wife, Kim, their sons Zachary and Nicholas, and their daughter Carmen are here with us today. 
   "We're also joined by Amul's mother, Veena Bhalla, his father and step-mother, Raj and Rama Thapar, his mother-in-law Joan Schulte, his sister Vandana Thapar and his uncle, Anand Bhasin. 
   "I want to take special note of Veena Bhalla's presence at this hearing today. Ms. Bhalla is a civilian social worker with the U.S. Army who works to help transition soldiers returning home from the battlefield. 
   "She chose to sell her successful restaurant and serve her country this way after the 9/11 attacks. She's traveled from Italy to be here to support her son, and we're all glad she could make it. Ms. Bhalla, thank you for your service. 
   With so many good people behind him, clearly Amul Thapar is the right man to serve as the next federal judge for the state's Eastern District. 
   "His time in the U.S. Attorney's office and as a clerk for two respected federal judges has given him an understanding of the day-to-day operations of federal courts. 
   "He's risen through the ranks to the top of his field to become a stellar prosecutor, all while maintaining his reputation as a man of unquestioned ethics and integrity. 
   "If confirmed, Amul Thapar will scrupulously interpret the law while always remaining impartial and fair. I'm confident he has the wisdom and integrity to excel as a federal judge. 
   "I'd like to add one more thing: As you know, this committee has received letters from both the National Asian Pacific American Bar Association and the North American South Asian Bar Association, strongly in support of Mr. Thapar's nomination. 
   "Both bar associations point out that if confirmed, he would be the first South Asian American Article III judge in the history of this country. I'm sure this committee appreciates them bringing this milestone to its attention. 
   "I appreciate this committee's expeditious handling of his nomination, and I look forward to his confirmation. Thank you for allowing me to testify on his behalf."
 
 