SEN. MCCONNELL: WE STAND WITH THE PEOPLE OF BURMA
  U.S. Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell delivered the following remarks Tuesday on the demonstrations in Burma: 
   "A remarkable scene is playing out in the country of Burma. For yet another day, tens of thousands of peaceful protestors demonstrated throughout Burma against the policies of that country's military junta, the State Peace and Development Council (SPDC). 
   "These protests were carried out in defiance of government threats. They were led again by barefoot monks, dressed in saffron robes, who just a few days ago in a simple but powerful gesture unleashed a dramatic series of events. That gesture was the turning upside down of their alms bowls--a symbol of the monks' refusal to accept charity from the regime--an act that has the potential to awaken the world to the brutality of this iniquitous regime.  
   "Imagine the courage of their actions. Their non-violent response subjects them to potential imprisonment and torture from a regime that has done far more, to citizens who have done far less. 
   "Earlier today, President Bush spoke at the United Nations General Assembly. He indicated that additional U.S. sanctions would be applied to the military junta. He also called for increased international pressure on this regime. 
   "The President should be applauded for his leadership in promoting democracy and reconciliation in Burma. 
   "The struggle for freedom in Burma isn't new, nor are we in the Congress new to it. I am hopeful that other countries will follow the lead of President Bush and Congress on this issue. 
   "Two nations are pivotal to this effort: India and China. Both have a major stake in a prosperous and democratic Burma emerging from this unrest. 
   "Failure to act in a constructive manner would be a poor reflection on India, the world's largest democracy. Failure to act in a meaningful manner would also be a poor reflection on China as that nation begins efforts to showcase itself for the 2008 Beijing Olympics. 
   "The United Nations Secretary General himself needs to directly engage the SPDC on this matter and call for real progress toward the democratization of Burma; the release of all political prisoners, including Aung San Suu Kyi; and the inclusion of ethnic minorities in a peaceful reconciliation process. 
   "Pressure is mounting on the SPDC, both from within and without. Yet there is a path forward for the regime and that is the path of genuine reconciliation. 
   "The SPDC needs to follow the pragmatic model of Apartheid South Africa in the early 1990s: recognize the need to enter into good faith negotiations with the legitimate leaders of the people. 
   "I would like to convey a few messages to those inside Burma: 
   "To the peaceful protestors: know that the friends of democracy are with you and we are awed by your courage and determination. 
   "To the regime: know that the eyes of the world are upon you and recall that the crackdown in 1988 was followed by sanctions that your government still labors under. Know too that as the government of Burma you are responsible for the safety and wellbeing of the demonstrators and also of Aung San Suu Kyi. Know that the path forward is through genuine reconciliation, not repression. 
   "In closing, I would note that the SPDC is much like any despotic regime that holds on to power through terror, force and corruption. The SPDC will not give way easily to peaceful protest and resistance. We must let those in Burma who seek peaceful change know that they do not stand alone."
 
 