SEN. MCCONNELL: 'WE WILL CONTINUE TO SET THE RECORD STRAIGHT ON JUDGE SOUTHWICK'
  U.S. Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell delivered the following statement (as prepared) on the Senate floor Thursday regarding the nomination of Judge Leslie Southwick to the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals:  
   "Over the past few days, Members of the Democratic Leadership have commented about Judge Southwick's nomination. These comments have mischaracterized his record and his service to the people of his state. 
   "Worse still, some of our Democratic colleagues have made insinuations about the commitment of this fine man to the principle of equal justice for all. 
   "These gross insinuations are, of course, at odds with the views of his peers and his home-state Senators, both of whom actually know the man. 
   "So over the next several days, we will continue to set the record straight--as the ranking member did so ably yesterday--to ensure that the Senate does not treat dishonorably an honorable man, a fine judge, and a courageous war veteran. Judge Southwick deserves more from his country than insinuation and innuendo. 
   "This leads me to a broader point. My friend, the Majority Leader, and I have an understanding as to how this Senate will treat judicial nominees in general. A fundamental component of that understanding is that individual nominees will be treated fairly. 
   "That commitment to fair treatment may be in serious jeopardy with the Southwick nomination. 
   "Let me remind my colleagues, the Judiciary Committee unanimously approved Judge Southwick for a lifetime appointment to the district court just last fall. But it is now threatening to kill his nomination on a party-line vote in committee. 
   "The only material change in Judge Southwick's qualifications between then and now is the rating of the American Bar Association--the Democrats' 'gold standard' for judicial nominees. The ABA has increased its rating of Judge Southwick from 'well qualified' for the district court to 'unanimously well-qualified' for the circuit court. 
   "It goes without saying that for Committee Democrats to oppose Judge Southwick for the circuit court after having supported him for the district court without any change in the man's record would certainly fall short of treating the man fairly. 
   "So I encourage my Democrat colleagues to think hard about the implications of unfair treatment for Judge Southwick for this Congress and for future Congresses."
 
 