U.S. SENATE PASSES MCCONNELL BILL: BURMESE FREEDOM AND DEMOCRACY ACT
  U.S. Senate Majority Whip Mitch McConnell announced today that the Senate passed his legislation to renew sanctions against the illegitimate and repressive State Peace and Development Council (SPDC) in Burma. "The Burmese Freedom and Democracy Act" now goes to President Bush for his signature. 
   "Today, the Senate acted on behalf of those in Burma who are being repressed. The Burmese people want these sanctions because they want democracy, justice and freedom, and we stand with them," said McConnell. 
   During a floor speech, Senator McConnell also called on the United Nations to do its part: "We need less talk and more action at the UN in support of democracy, freedom, and justice in Burma. The situation is so dire in Burma that the UN has already adopted 28 non-binding resolutions regarding that country. It is now time for the UN Security Council to act."  
   Prior to the vote, McConnell made the following remarks on the Senate floor: 
   "I rise today to speak in support of the Burmese Freedom and Democracy Act. 
   "This May, along with many cosponsors, including my good friends Senator Feinstein and Senator McCain, I introduced this bill for the Senate's consideration. 
   "Passage of this bill will mean continued sanctions against the illegitimate, dictatorial regime that currently holds Burma in its grip--the Orwellian-named State Peace and Development Council, or SPDC. 
   "This Senate will be acting on behalf of those in Burma who are being repressed. The Burmese people want these sanctions because they want democracy, justice and freedom, and we stand with them. 
   "The broad, bipartisan coalition in this chamber for this legislation indicates America's firm resolve to oppose the tyrannical SPDC regime, and America's recognition that Burma under the SPDC poses an immediate threat to its region. To put it simply, the allies of the Burmese people have a moral obligation to continue to stand against the SPDC. I take great pride that we are continuing to do so. 
   "As many of my colleagues are well aware, last year the extension of sanctions was signed into law by President Bush on July 27, 2005, and it enjoyed strong bipartisan support. It passed this body by a vote of 97 to 1. 
   "Unfortunately, recent events have reminded us of the need to keep up the pressure on the villainous SPDC regime. 
   "Ibrahim Gambari, the United Nations Under-Secretary-General for Political Affairs, visited Burma in May as a representative of Secretary-General Kofi Annan. He met with the ringleaders of the SPDC as well as Nobel Peace Prize winner Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, political prisoner and leader of that country's democracy movement. 
   "Suu Kyi has spent most of the last 17 years in detention or under house arrest for her efforts to bring freedom and democracy to her people. Many other members of her party, the National League for Democracy--the NLD--have been detained as well. 
   "After returning, Mr. Gambari wrote a column for the International Herald-Tribune titled "A Crack in the Burmese Door." After acknowledging the SPDC's years of repression and misrule, Mr. Gambari writes, "Last month, something seemed to change. [Burma]'s locked door popped open a small crack." 
   "Mr. Gambari wrote this based on his discussions with the SPDC. But I think we should judge actions rather than words. And those actions tell an entirely different story. 
   "I do not share Mr. Gambari's optimistic view that the SPDC is ready to, as he puts it, "turn a new page." In my view, the junta is only interested in deflecting growing pressure from the international community to change its repressive ways--and in avoiding the UN Security Council's consideration of a non-punitive resolution that addresses the threat the SPDC poses to its own people and the entire region. 
   "Shortly after Mr. Gambari's visit, Suu Kyi's house arrest was extended for another year--double the length of the extensions she typically receives, under the regime's perverted concept of a legal process. 
   "Even worse, Suu Kyi's life was threatened in a state-run newspaper. The New Light of Myanmar, a mouthpiece for the SPDC junta, printed the following in a story on July 6: 
   "The days of Daw Suu Kyi and NLD are numbered. They are heading for the tragic end?Daw Suu Kyi and the National League for Democracy (NLD) pose the most dangerous threat to the nation." 
   "That is an ominous threat. And the people who make it have the power to see it carried out. 
   "They have made an attempt on her life before, and are apparently threatening to do so again. 
   "In addition to the immediate danger its misrule poses to the Burmese people, we cannot forget for a single moment that the military regime in Rangoon poses a significant and non-traditional threat to the entire region. Their litany of abuses is well known. 
   "Refugees spill into Thailand, fleeing the SPDC's brutal war against ethnic minorities. 
   "Illegal drugs pour across Burma's borders into China, India, and Thailand, and destroy the lives of the region's youth. 
   "And an unchecked HIV/AIDS virus closely follows drug trafficking routes, leaving disease and human tragedy in its wake. 
   "It is worth noting that the SPDC spent $70,000 in 2004 to combat HIV/AIDS. This is in stark contrast to the millions of dollars spent on weapons from China and Russia--and, according to recent news reports, North Korea. 
   "This is no time for the international community and multilateral organizations, including the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, ASEAN, to soften its stance on Burma. 
   "I want to emphasize for my colleagues one very important point. This Senate has already done much on behalf of the Burmese people. Now it is time for the UN to do its part. 
   "We need less talk and more action at the UN in support of democracy, freedom, and justice in Burma. We must keep in mind that the situation is so dire in Burma that the UN has already adopted 28 non-binding resolutions regarding that country. It is now time for the UN Security Council to act. 
   "The criteria and justification for bringing a country before the Security Council was outlined in a report commissioned by former Czech President Vaclav Havel and South African Archbishop Desmond Tutu. There is no one in this chamber who does not applaud their sustained efforts to bring about a peaceful solution to the Burma problem. 
   "In fact, the Senate passed in May a measure that I sponsored calling on the UN Security Council to discuss a binding, non-punitive resolution on Burma that calls for the immediate and unconditional release of Suu Kyi and all other political prisoners in that country; an end to abuses against minorities, including the use of rape as a weapon of war; and the beginning of a meaningful national reconciliation process that includes the unfettered participation of the NLD and ethnic minorities with the SPDC. 
   "It is time for the UN Security Council to take such action. It is time for free nations to stand for freedom. 
   "I specifically call on the respective governments of Ghana and the Republic of Congo, current non-permanent members of the Security Council, to support this resolution. 
   "Ghana, in particular, is a country that values freedom and the rule of law, and support for the resolution would unequivocally demonstrate that they stand on the side of justice in Burma. 
   "I urge our Representative to the United Nations to continue efforts to move toward Security Council consideration of a non-punitive resolution on Burma. To do any less would be to take a step backward. 
   "The Congress has stood with the people of Burma in their quest for freedom and democracy. It is time for the UN Security Council to do the same. I yield the floor."
 
 