SEN. MCCONNELL CALLS FOR EXTENDING, RENEWING IMPORT SANCTIONS AGAINST BURMA
  U.S. Senate Majority Whip Mitch McConnell today introduced "The Burma Freedom and Democracy Act," extending and renewing import sanctions against Burma. He released the following statement on the legislation: 
   "Today, along with my colleagues, Senators Feinstein and McCain, I rise to introduce an extension of the Burmese Freedom and Democracy Act.  
   "We are joined by a host of original cosponsors: Senators Frist, Reid, Alexander, Allard, Allen, Bennett, Biden, Bingaman, Boxer, Brownback, Bunning, Burns, Burr, Chafee, Chambliss, Clinton, Cochran, Collins, DeWine, Dole, Domenici, Durbin, Ensign, Feingold, Hagel, Harkin, Kennedy, Kerry, Kohl, Kyl, Leahy, Lieberman, Lugar, Martinez, Menendez, Mikulski, Murkowski, Obama, Salazar, Santorum, Sarbanes, Smith, Stabenow, Sununu, Voinovich, and Wyden. 
   "This broad bipartisan coalition reflects the overwhelming consensus within this body that the issue of freedom in Burma - and the immediate threat that that country poses to the entire region - is one of major importance. To put it simply, America has a moral obligation to continue to stand with the Burmese people against the country's dictatorial regime, the State Peace and Development Council (SPDC). 
   "As many of you know, last year the extension of sanctions was signed into law by President Bush on July 27, 2005, and it enjoyed strong bipartisan support. It passed the Senate by a vote of 97-1. 
   "The past year has brought more news from Burma that has ranged from the disconcerting to the horrific. First, the SPDC inexplicably decided to move the nation's capital from Rangoon to the hinterlands. Thus, instead of using state resources for the betterment of the Burmese people, who desperately need it, the SPDC will use state funds to build a brand new, unneeded capital located deep within the interior. 
   "Second, Nobel Peace Prize winner Daw Aung San Suu Kyi and scores of other prisoners of conscience remain imprisoned by the SPDC. There are rumors that she may be released soon, and I hope they prove true. 
   "Third, last fall the SPDC began a brutal military campaign against ethnic minorities, creating thousands of new internally displaced persons (IDPs); these thousands to be added to the approximately half million already without a home in Burma. Burma has the biggest IDP problem in Asia, Mr. President. 
   "This bill ensures that the United States will not be a party to such brutality and oppression. As in the past, the legislation prohibits imports into the United States from Burma. The bill also maintains a freeze on the assets held by Burmese government officials in U.S. financial institutions. In addition, the bill authorizes the President to assist democracy activists dedicated to nonviolent opposition to the regime in Burma. 
   "America is not alone in the effort to promote freedom and democracy in that nation. In addition to our allies in Europe, the ASEAN Inter-Parliamentary Myanmar Caucus, a grouping of members of parliament from six countries in ASEAN, just this week issued a strong statement on Burma. The group called on the U.N. Security Council to "adopt[] a resolution on Burma that would empower them to intervene in Burma's crises. It is time for real action. It is time for a new, democratic and peaceful Burma." 
   "Clearly, it is time for the Security Council to discuss and debate a legally-binding, non-punitive resolution on Burma that calls for the immediate and unconditional release of Suu Kyi and all other political prisoners in that country; an end to abuses against minorities (including the use of rape as a weapon of war); and the beginning of a meaningful national reconciliation process that includes the unfettered participation of the National League for Democracy (NLD) and ethnic minorities with the SPDC. 
   "Let me be clear that a briefing on Burma before the U.N. Security Council by U.N. Under-Secretary-General for Political Affairs Ibrahim Gambari should not serve as a substitute for a resolution on this matter. We need less talk and more action at the U.N. in support of democracy, freedom and justice in Burma. 
   "Let me offer a comment or two about Mr. Gambari's recent visit to Burma. I do not share his optimistic view that the SPDC is ready to "turn the page." In my view, the junta is only interested in deflecting and deflating growing pressure by the international community to change its repressive ways - and in avoiding the U.N. Security Council's consideration of a resolution that addresses the threat the SPDC poses to its own people and the entire region. This may explain why rumors of Suu Kyi's release abound. 
   "However, even if Suu Kyi were to be released there is no reason - absolutely none - for anyone to decrease pressure on the junta. The SPDC is to be judged not by what it says - we've certainly heard much of the same before - but by what it does. We have yet to see any evidence of the formation of a credible reconciliation process that includes the full and unfettered participation of the National League for Democracy and ethnic nationalities - who, by the way, are being slaughtered and raped by an ongoing military offensive waged by the junta. 
   "I am pleased to be joined by Senators Feinstein, Frist, Brownback, Lautenberg, Durbin, Feingold, Mikulski and Lugar in sending a letter to President Bush today asking that the United States work to secure a resolution at the Security Council as soon as possible. 
   "Until the SPDC's demonstrates by its actions that it is serious about reconciliation and reform in Burma, the international community has no choice but to use more sticks - and less carrots - to increase pressure on the junta."
 
 