SENS. MCCONNELL/FEINSTEIN SEND VIDEO MESSAGE TO PEOPLE OF BURMA
  U.S. Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) and Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) recorded a video message Thursday for the people of Burma. In the video, Senators McConnell and Feinstein spoke directly to the people of Burma to let them know that the United States supports their efforts for freedom and democracy.  
   To view the video please go to the following link: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=d_Dnuws9Sxo 
   Transcript follows: 
   Senator McCONNELL: Hello, I am United States Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell. 
   Senator FEINSTEIN: And, I am United States Senator Dianne Feinstein. 
   McCONNELL: Today, we would like to speak directly to the freedom-loving people of Burma. 
   My friends, we want you to know that we in the United States and others around the world have closely followed your efforts to win the freedom you deserve. 
   Technology has permitted people everywhere to witness your heroism and to watch the brutal reaction of the State Peace and Development Council. 
   We in the United States remain humbled by the courageous protests we see on television and on the internet. Our newspapers report daily of your peaceful heroism. 
   We have also watched the violent attempts to suppress your nonviolent demonstrations. 
   The world has not ignored your efforts. Each day more people become invested in your quest for democracy. The regime can no longer ignore the outside world as people see the images of your peaceful demonstrations and the barbaric efforts to quash them. 
   Most of all we want you to know that we, like so many others throughout the world, actively support your struggle for freedom, democracy and reconciliation. 
   Your struggle is our struggle. The world is watching and we are cheering you. 
   FEINSTEIN: Today, I join Senator McConnell in expressing our complete solidarity with you, the brave people of Burma. 
   We hear your pleas for liberty, democracy, and human rights. 
   We admire your courage and determination. We are moved by your commitment to non-violence in the face of oppression and threats of violence. 
   You are not alone. The people of the United States, the Congress, and the Administration stand with you and support your goal of a free and democratic Burma. 
   Our pledge to you is that we will continue to press the military regime to release all political prisoners including Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, and to begin a true dialogue on national reconciliation with all parties. 
   We will continue to urge Burma's neighbors with the closest ties to the regime - China, India, Japan, Russia, and the members of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations - to put pressure on the regime to cease its attacks and embrace a peaceful political settlement. 
   We are watching, we are paying attention, and we will not give up on our shared vision of a free and democratic Burma. 
   FEINSTEIN: To quote the words of the brave Burmese protestors: "Our cause." 
   McCONNELL: Our cause.
 
 