SEN. MCCONNELL MARKS 18TH ANNIVERSARY OF BURMESE NATIONAL LEAGUE FOR DEMOCRACY
  U.S. Senate Majority Whip Mitch McConnell released the following statement today marking the 18th anniversary of the founding of the Burmese National League for Democracy:  
   "Mr. President, I rise today to mark an important milestone: the 18th anniversary of the founding of the Burmese National League for Democracy (NLD). As the world knows well, the NLD is the legitimate leadership of the country of Burma as the party was elected overwhelmingly by the Burmese people in 1990. 
   "Sadly, the 18th anniversary for the NLD is not a time for rejoicing. The NLD remains firmly under the boot of the Burmese ruling junta, the State Peace and Development Council (SPDC). Many of its leaders are imprisoned, including Nobel Laureate and democracy advocate Daw Aung San Suu Kyi and NLD Vice Chairman U Tin Oo. Thirteen elected NLD members of parliament and over 400 party members currently serve in prison. Other NLD members have endured torture and have been killed as the SPDC continues to wage a campaign of harassment, intimidation - and worse - against party members and supporters. 
   "In a testament to the courage and determination of its leadership, and despite these great hardships, the NLD remains unbowed. It continues to pursue non-violent political change in Burma. I am proud to say that the United States Senate stands squarely alongside the NLD in its efforts. I am hopeful that the United Nations (UN) Security Council will as well. Due to the determined efforts of many countries, including the United States, Burma is slated to be on the Council's agenda for the first time ever. It will then be time for member states to stand up and be counted in support of a non-punitive resolution on Burma. 
   "It should be noted that UN Under-Secretary-General Ibrahim Gambari's trip to Rangoon earlier this year was a complete failure. Mr. Gambari should not make a second trip to Burma unless and until the UN Security Council has considered and passed a resolution that, among other things, details the threats the SPDC poses to the people of Burma and the entire region. Such action would be a clear message to the SPDC that when it comes to Burma, the world is not satisfied with the status quo. 
   "Similarly, I would encourage all relevant bureaus at the State Department and the National Security Council - particularly those relating to African affairs - to remain engaged and focused on this issue. The task of promoting democracy and reconciliation in Burma should not be left only to the East Asian and Pacific Affairs and the Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor bureaus at the State Department. With three African nations currently sitting on the UN Security Council, our African affairs specialists need to more actively engage in building support for such a resolution. Ghana has already demonstrated its solidarity with the cause of freedom. The Republic of Congo and Tanzania need to follow suit. 
   "Finally, on this, the 18th anniversary of the founding of NLD, I call upon the Burmese military regime to release Suu Kyi and all political prisoners. Only then can discussions on a meaningful reconciliation process - one that includes the full and unfettered participation of the NLD and ethnic minorities - proceed."
 
 