SEN. MCCONNELL COMMENTS ON NEED TO PASS FISA REFORM BEFORE IT EXPIRES
  U.S. Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell delivered the following remarks on the Senate floor Tuesday regarding the urgent need to pass FISA reform: 
   "Mr. President, we known we've needed to get the FISA law extended for six months. Six months. I've also heard it suggested that somehow little or no harm would be done if the law were allowed to be expired. Well, that's simply incorrect. 
   "The ability to go after new targets would be eliminated with the expiration of this bill in three days. So here we are with three days to go and I gather, from listening to my good friend on the other side, the very real possibility that there is at least some willingness on the part of some on the other side to just let the law expire.  
   "Contrary to what some are saying, the expiration of this important anti-terrorist tool has serious consequences. That is, if we don't get this job done, the notion that it somehow doesn't make any difference certainly is not true. 
   "Let me say it again. 
   "Once it expires, intelligence officials will no longer be able to gather intelligence on new-new-foreign terrorist targets. Terrorists are not going to stop planning new attacks just because we stop monitoring their activities. 
   "Our enemies are watching, Mr. President. They know our intelligence capabilities will be degraded once the Protect America Act expires. That's why we need to re-authorize FISA in such a way that we retain its full terror fighting force. The Senate Intelligence Committee's version does just that. That's the Rockefeller-Bond bipartisan proposal that came out of the committee 13-2. And Senate Republicans stand ready to finish that good work that the committee did and the administration began. 
   "We proposed a list of several amendments to our colleagues on the other side that could receive votes. I know those discussions are ongoing and hopefully we can begin to have some votes. But we do not have the time to rebuild amendment by amendment a Judiciary Committee version that a bipartisan majority of the Senate has already defeated. And it wouldn't become law even if we passed it. 
   "Now, Republicans are ready to provide a short-term extension of the Protect America Act to keep the Senate focused on the importance of this critical terror-fighting tool. But after 10 months of waiting, we do not need, and the country cannot afford another month of delay. Now, we await the response of our Democratic colleagues to our amendment proposals and any of those discussions going forward. We look forward to finishing the job in a way that allows our intelligence professionals to keep us safe from harm." 
   "We're going to focus on this bill, hopefully find a way to go forward and let the Senate work its will. And if the House of Representatives chooses to leave tonight, I find that a highly irresponsible act right before the expiration of this very important law. There isn't anything more important we're doing right now with the possible exception of trying to figure out a way to go forward to stimulate our economy and prevent extensive slowdown of our economy than getting the homeland protected." 
   "This is the kind of legislative finger pointing that turns the public off. But it is the way in which we go forward. We had discussions yesterday about voting on the very issues that the majority leader has just indicated are the key issues related to this bill. Hopefully during the course of the day we'll be able to come together, have the votes on the key amendments and move forward."
 
 