SENATE REPUBLICAN LEADER MITCH MCCONNELL'S COMMENTS ON HONORING TUSKEGEE AIRMEN
  The United States Congress on Thursday honored the Tuskegee Airmen with a Congressional Gold Medal. The award is the most prestigious Congress can offer to an individual who performs an outstanding act of service for the security, prosperity, and national interest of the United States.  
   Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell's remarks honoring the Tuskegee Airmen 
   The Rotunda, U.S. Capitol, March 29, 2007 
   "Thank you. I'm honored to be a part of this ceremony, and to be in the company of these brave men. Sixty years after your deeds of heroism, this recognition is long overdue. 
   "But the true reward is not in a medal. It is in the nation you defended, and shaped, through your heroic efforts in the skies of Europe. 
   "Men trained at the Tuskegee Army Air Field in the 1940s did what none of their counterparts in the Army did. You fought to protect a country that, in large part, didn't want you in combat. By doing so, you transformed that disdain into admiration and respect. 
   "Thirteen cadets began the first class of training at Tuskegee in 1941. Only five finished. But by the war's end, hundreds of Tuskegee Airmen had flown more than 15,000 combat sorties. You ripped open the steel armor of the Axis Powers. And you pried open the hardened legacy of racism in the minds of Americans everywhere. 
   "Although World War II is long over, your lessons for our country about courage, duty and resolve in the face of hardship must not stop. 
   "We're blessed to have over 300 Tuskegee Airmen here with us today, part of a very special brotherhood. 
   "And I hope all of you know that your legacy of heroism is being passed down to the latest generation of Americans, including the current generation who fight to protect us and who follow in your footsteps. 
   "Congratulations on this well-deserved, if overdue honor. Thank you for serving our country, then and now. And thank you for leaving it better than you found it. 
   "Thank you."
 
 