SEN. MCCONNELL ISSUES STATEMENT ON CAMBODIA
  U.S. Senate Majority Whip Mitch McConnell released the following statement today on the 9th anniversary of the attack on an opposition party rally in Cambodia:  
   "Mr. President, today is a tragic anniversary for Cambodia. 
   "Nine years ago, on March 30, 1997, a peaceful and legal rally held by the opposition Khmer Nation Party was disrupted by a grenade attack. To date, there has been no justice for the victims or their families, including American Ron Abney who was injured in the attack. 
   "While I am aware of the many lawsuits relating to this incident that have been filed, dropped or dismissed, I encourage the State Department to work with the Government of Cambodia to secure the return of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) so that the FBI can conclude its investigation into this crime. Bringing the perpetrators to justice is the only way to honor those killed and injured on that tragic day. 
   "I am hopeful that the ongoing dialogue between Prime Minister Hun Sen and opposition leader Sam Rainsy will continue, and that Hun Sen's pledges for reform are matched by concrete and measurable actions. My only advice to the Prime Minister is that he thinks before he speaks. It is counterproductive, at best, to call for the sacking of Yash Ghai, the U.N.'s special representative for human rights in Cambodia, because of critical comments he made on the government's crackdown on dissent. 
   "The desire for democracy and justice in Cambodia remains strong today, and I encourage the Cambodian people to remain vigilant. It is my hope that they one day know freedom from fear, can rely on good governance, and know that justice is neither bought nor sold. The Government of Cambodia bears the burden of proving that it is part of the solution - and not part of the problem. International donors should not forget for a single moment that those killed 9 years ago were peacefully calling for judicial reforms. 
   "As I have in the past, I ask that the names of those murdered on March 30, 1997, appear in the Record following my remarks. I know they remain in the thoughts and prayers of their families and friends in Cambodia, as do they in ours." 
   Mr. Cheth Duong Daravuth, Mr. Han Mony, Mr. Sam Sarin, Ms. Yong Sok Neuv, Ms. Yong Srey, Ms. Yos Siem, Ms. Chanty Pheakdey, Mr. Ros Sear, Ms. Sok Kheng, Mr. Yoeun Yorn, Mr. Chea Nang, and Mr. Nam Thy.
 
 