SEN. MCCONNELL ADDRESSES NEED FOR SWIFT PASSAGE OF HOUSE-PASSED BIPARTISAN ECONOMIC GROWTH PACKAGE
  U.S. Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell made the following remarks on the Senate floor Thursday regarding the need for swift passage of the House-passed bipartisan economic growth package:  
   "Last week, Americans saw something many of them thought they might never see: Speaker Pelosi, Minority Leader Boehner, and the President working as a team. 
   "Republicans and Democrats rose above politics and put the people and the economy first. 
   "And on Tuesday, the House passed their compromise stimulus plan by a vote of 385-35. 
   "Then all eyes turned to the Senate: Would we put our individual interests aside, or would we throw the whole plan into jeopardy by loading it down with gifts for anybody who came calling? 
   "But the temptation to add goodies proved too great. 
   "As soon as the bill hit the Senate, it started to look a lot like Christmas over here. 
   "Chairman Baucus added 10 new provisions before the bill was even considered in committee. 
   "Three more amendments were added in committee. 
   "You could almost hear Bing Crosby's voice coming out of the Finance Committee. 
   "And so the bullet train speeding relief to Americans quickly became a horse and buggy here in the Senate. 
   "All of which only reinforces my view that the only way we'll get relief to the people soon enough for it to work will be to insist on speed over spending. 
   "The only way to do that is to pass the bipartisan, House-passed bill. 
   "That way we can send it to the President for a signature -- and get much needed relief into the hands of millions of Americans as quickly as they're now expecting it. 
   "This is only way to pass an economic growth package that doesn't grow the government or raise taxes and that can be signed into law and quickly delivered to the people. 
   "The other option is to bring it to the floor, where we know it will only grow and slow under the weight of endless additional spending proposals. "We need to act quickly. 
   "The House acted quickly. 
   "Now it's our turn."
 
 