SEN. MCCONNELL: 'END BRINKSMANSHIP ON JUDICIAL NOMINEES'
  U.S. Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell delivered the following remarks [as prepared] on the Senate floor Monday regarding the Judiciary Committee's shut down on circuit court nominations:  
   "I would like to compliment the Ranking Member on the Judiciary Committee, Senator Specter, on his remarks about the need for the Judiciary Committee to treat the President's circuit court nominees fairly. 
   "Before this Congress began, the Majority Leader and I discussed the need for the Senate to have a fairer, and less contentious, confirmation process. 
   "I believe my friend the Majority Leader still shares that goal. The Senate made decent progress on circuit court nominations last year. We didn't match President Clinton's number from his first session of his last Congress, but we came close. 
   "We had one notable bump along the way, namely the nomination of Judge Leslie Southwick. But we were able to get him through. And it is good for the institution that we did. 
   "Unfortunately, the prospect of turning the page on judicial nominations-a goal which I think all but the hardest partisans share-has taken a wrong turn. Despite the best efforts of the Ranking Member and others, progress has all-but ground to a halt. 
   "There have been no judicial confirmations so far this year, and there has been only one hearing on a circuit court nominee since September of last year. 
   "It is puzzling why progress has almost stopped. 
   "Some like to blame the President. But as the Ranking Member has noted, there are several circuit court nominees who have been pending in Committee for hundreds of days who have yet to receive a simple hearing, let alone a committee or floor vote. 
   "In addition, many of these nominees satisfy most or all of the Chairman's specific criteria for prompt consideration: they have strong-home state support, they fill judicial emergencies, and they have good or outstanding ABA ratings. 
   "So it is puzzling why it is taking so long to move them. I hope the Committee is not slow-walking these nominees based on decade-old grievances, both real and imagined. 
   "That may be emotionally satisfying, but it will set a precedent that will serve us ill, regardless of who is in the White House and which party controls the Senate. 
   "I hope my Democratic colleagues resist the desire by some to drag us back into judicial confirmation brinksmanship and establish a precedent they will regret. I hope they will treat these nominees fairly before it is too late."
 
 