SEN. MCCONNELL TESTIFIES ON BURMA BEFORE SENATE COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN RELATIONS
  U.S. Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell delivered the following remarks (as prepared) Wednesday before the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations. The committee held a hearing on Burma.  
   "Chairwoman Boxer, Ranking Member Murkowski: Thank you for inviting me to make a statement today about the situation in Burma. "Democratic reform in Burma is an issue that I have taken a great interest in for many years. I am pleased that the issue today enjoys strong bipartisan support in Congress. This was reflected in the Sense of the Senate that passed this Monday, condemning the regime for its barbaric behavior. 
   "The Burmese junta's recent attacks against peaceful protestors were despicable and an affront to free people everywhere. However, simply because the ruthlessness of the Burmese regime is slipping off of the front pages does not mean that the heavy hand of that government has been lifted. 
   "Just this morning, the Associated Press reported that Burmese soldiers were driving through the streets of Rangoon looking to round up protestors who had previously escaped their clutches. 
   "There are some encouraging signs, however. News reports indicate that the European Union is nearing agreement on ratcheting up sanctions against the Burmese regime. 
   "Ultimately, the United Nations Security Council will need to take meaningful action on sanctions for the junta to be pressured into changing its behavior and embracing peaceful reconciliation. And that means that China will need to be persuaded of the need to take the regime to task. 
   "It also means that India will need to join its fellow democracies and play a more constructive role in pushing for democratic reform within Burma. As both China and India mature into their respective roles as economic, regional and global powers in this century, more will be expected of them in both word and deed. The cause of reform in Burma is just such an area. "I think hearings such as this are crucial to keep public attention focused on the repression in Burma and to make it more difficult for China and India to evade their responsibilities as global stakeholders. And I very much appreciate the committee's efforts in this vein. "Thank you."
 
 