SEN. MCCONNELL COMMENTS ON U.S.-PERU TRADE AGREEMENT
  U.S. Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell delivered the following remarks[as prepared] on the Senate floor Tuesday regarding the U.S.-Peru trade promotion agreement: 
   "The U.S.-Peru Trade Promotion Agreement Implementation Act represents new opportunities. It's an opportunity to strengthen America's economic growth. And it's an opportunity to forge a stronger relationship with a key ally in an important region of the world.  
   "We already know that trade agreements with countries help grow this economy, through increased exports, which translate to more new jobs for many American workers. They also create lower prices and more choices for the consumer. 
   "This bill will do all of that by leveling the playing field for American exporters and producers. As recently as 2006, 98 percent of Peruvian exports to America entered this country duty-free. But because of high tariffs, American exporters have not had anywhere near equivalent access to Peru's markets. 
   "When this agreement enters into force, 80 percent of American consumer and industrial exports to Peru will be duty-free immediately. That's a tremendous benefit to thousands of American businesses, and millions of American workers. 
   "For my home state of Kentucky, this bill will do a lot of good as well. Exports to world markets mean a lot to my state--Kentucky's export shipments of merchandise in 2006 accounted for $17.2 billion, including $16.3 million worth of goods to Peru. Almost 16 percent of Kentucky manufacturing workers depend on exports for their jobs. 
   "New markets for Kentucky's transportation equipment manufacturers, chemical manufacturers, and machinery manufacturers will open up because of this bill, as will markets for Kentucky's many agricultural products. 
   "By way of a comparison, three years after Congress approved a similar trade deal with Singapore, Kentucky exports to Singapore have grown 68 percent. Kentucky and America can reap similar rewards again in a new, more fruitful partnership with Peru by passing this bill. 
   "Peru stands to gain as well. Greater ties to America can only help strengthen security and stability in that country, a key ally in the Western Hemisphere. 
   "It's critical for America to remain engaged in that part of the world, and it's vitally important for us to build strong ties with countries that have made a commitment to freedom and democracy. Peru is such an ally. 
   "I want to thank my good friend, the senior Senator from Iowa, for his important work on this bill. Thanks to Senator Grassley, we are soon about to vote on final passage. 
   "I also want to echo his concerns about the current state of our trade policy. Earlier this year, Democrats and Republicans came to an agreement on trade--in return for concessions on matters such as overseas labor issues, House Democrats would move several free trade agreements. 
   "So far, today's Peru agreement is all we have. We haven't seen any positive movement on free trade agreements with Colombia or Panama. Once the issue of beef is addressed with respect to South Korea, I hope we can see that agreement move along as well. 
   "I'm disappointed the other chamber hasn't been able to pass these agreements more quickly. We know they will strengthen our economy. And we know they will strengthen our bonds with some very important allies. 
   "Colombia, in particular, has been making great strides to combat the drug trade that ravages so much of that country, and has done much to cut down on the flow of illegal drugs to the United States. Why can't we move faster and show good faith with this ally? 
   "I hope the successful vote for passage we are about to have will pave the way for more in the very near future. These trade agreements are good for the American people, and good for our allies around the world, and we ought to enact them soon."
 
 