SEN. MCCONNELL: ISAKSON PROPOSAL PROVIDES INNOVATIVE RELIEF
  U.S. Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell delivered the following remarks on the Senate floor Tuesday regarding Senator Isakson's housing proposal which would help maintain the value and security of neighborhoods by encouraging speedy sale and renovation of foreclosed homes:  
   "Last week we debated housing. Democrats want to raise monthly mortgage payments on everyone who wants to buy a new home or refinance an existing one. Republicans have a broader, bolder plan. We want to create the economic conditions that make homeownership easier -- more jobs and higher wages. 
   "Our first priority is to help families who are either facing foreclosure or seeing the values of their homes drop as a result of other foreclosures nearby. 
   "This morning I want to talk about one specific thing we can do to help these families. 
   "Home values are falling not only because of cut-rate selloffs by banks, but also because areas with a high volume of vacant homes often see an increase in crime and neglect. 
   "One thing government has done in the past to help reverse a slide in home values is to make tax credits available to people who pick up foreclosed homes in affected areas. 
   "This worked in the mid-70s, when a period of easy credit led to over-construction and higher interest rates. 
   "Congress responded with a $6,000 tax credit spread out over three years for anyone who bought a new home for their primary residence. Home values stabilized, inventory dropped, and the housing market recovered Congress should do the same thing today. 
   "Senator Isakson has decades of experience in real estate. He saw the good effects of the tax credit that Congress provided in the 70s. 
   "Now he's proposing a $15,000 credit, spread over three years, for people who buy newer homes whose first mortgage is in default or single-family homes in possession of a bank. 
   "Buyers must occupy these homes as their principle residence to be eligible -- we're not about to let speculators to come in and make the current problem worse 
   "This is just one idea Republicans are proposing to help families struggling with the painful effects of the housing downturn. 
   "I mentioned some of these ideas yesterday. We will discuss others as the week goes on. 
   "A lot of families need urgent relief. They should know the government is doing everything it can, without damaging our long-term economy, to help them through a difficult stretch. 
   "And we certainly should avoid measures that make the underlying situation worse, as the centerpiece of the Democrats' response to the housing situation would."
 
 