SEN. MCCONNELL PAYS TRIBUTE TO 101ST AIRBORNE DIVISION OF FORT CAMPBELL, KENTUCKY
  Sen. Mitch McConnell delivered the following remarks today on the Senate floor:
   "Mr. President, I rise to pay tribute to the men and women who make up the 101st Airborne Division, based at Fort Campbell, Kentucky. In the War on Terror, these soldiers frequently form the front lines. I offer them the thanks and prayers of a grateful nation as they are in the process of redeploying to Iraq once again. 
   "The 101st has seen action in Iraq before. They led the initial wave of forces sent to liberate that country in March 2003. About 19,000 soldiers in all from the 101st helped bring freedom to the Iraqi people and destroy Saddam Hussein's illegitimate regime.
   "After the fall of Hussein, the soldiers of the 101st operated around the city of Mosul, in northern Iraq, - I had a chance to visit them there back in 2003 - keeping innocent Iraqis safe and tracking down terrorists. Stationed in Iraq for about a year, they undertook some of the most hazardous duties yet in the War on Terror. Tragically, 73 soldiers from Fort Campbell have made the ultimate sacrifice in the line of duty to date, including four soldiers killed near Baghdad earlier this very week.
   "My heart goes out to the families of these brave heroes. I believe the best way we can respect their memories is to finish their mission in Iraq with honor. I have tried to do my utmost in this Senate to see that our armed forces get everything they need to fulfill that mission, and I will continue to do so.
   "The 101st Airborne Division, also known as "The Screaming Eagles," is one of the most respected divisions in our armed services, and frequently gets the first call when crisis strikes. They specialize in the rapid deployment of soldiers into combat from helicopters.
   "The division was founded in 1942 and parachuted into Normandy on D-Day during World War II. Later, many of its members saw action at the Battle of the Bulge. The 101st continued to serve many critical missions in Vietnam and the First Gulf War. They are the best America has to offer.
   "The 101st Airborne began redeploying to Iraq in September, and by the end of this month about 20,000 of its soldiers will be back in Iraq. They will be gone for at least a year. For many soldiers, this will be their third deployment since September 11, 2001 - the 101st was also deployed to Afghanistan soon after the attack of September 11th.
   "Major General Thomas R. Turner, who commands the 101st Airborne, expressed the confidence and clarity of vision that all the soldiers of the 101st share when he spoke at a color casing ceremony recently to signal the official departure of his soldiers back to Iraq.
   "Referring to the 101st Airborne's mission, he said, "Our end state is clear: an Iraq at peace with its neighbors, and an ally in the War on Terror, with a representative government that respects the human rights of all Iraqis." Mr. President, just as in wars before, our country fights not for land or treasure, but for freedom.
   "In previous centuries, America has fought to secure liberty, end slavery, and stamp out fascism. Our cause today is equally just: We fight to defeat the terrorists who would rule by fear. And we are fighting to spread freedom, because freedom is the antidote to the terrorists' fear.
   "Mr. President, as Thanksgiving approaches, I ask my colleagues to join me in thanking the soldiers of the 101st Airborne for their extraordinary service. Kentucky thanks them as well, and we all pray for their safe return."
 
 