SEN. MCCONNELL COMMENTS ON PASSING OF SEN. THOMAS
  U.S. Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell delivered the following statement on the Senate floor Tuesday regarding Sen. Craig Thomas: 
   "A visitor to the rodeo in Cheyenne, Wyoming, just last summer would have seen a strong, confident, 73-year-old man, holding the reins under a cowboy hat riding past the grandstand with a smile. 
   "A few weeks earlier, visitors to Cody, Wyoming, would have seen the same tough cowboy riding down the avenue in the Cody Stampede Parade. And just a few days ago, tourists here in Washington getting an early start on the monuments could have seen Craig Lyle Thomas racing off 395 near the 14th Street Bridge in another kind of mustang on his way to the Capitol for a hard day's work.  
   "In recent years, Craig Thomas led an effort here in the Senate to honor the deeds and the spirit of the American cowboy. And his very full American life came to a sad end last night. We, his friends and colleagues, remember him as the modern day embodiment of the cowboy ideals he celebrated and loved. 
   "He was raised on a ranch just outside Cody, the rodeo capital of the world, in a bighorn basin, windy town, in the northwest corner of the cowboy state. He grew up in the shadow of Heart Mountain to the north and Carter Mountain to the south, under the memory of Cody's founder, William Frederick Cody, known to history and school children from Butte to Boston as Buffalo Bill. 
   "He was a humble man with an adventurous spirit from a lonely corner of the country who put his family, his country, and his state above all else. He served as a Marine from 1955 to 1959 retiring as a Captain. 
   "He married a woman with a generous heart, Elaine's friend and my good friend Susan, and one of the joys of Elaine was being invited to Susan's school to speak to her students. 
   "He was the proud father of four children, Lexie, Patrick, Greg and Peter who, today, mourn their father's death. 
   "Craig was as much at home on horseback, roping and ranching, as he was in a committee hearing room. How many times he must have daydreamed about being back home, out of a suit, with a rope in his hand and a steer in his sights. 
   "He had served this public office 22 years when he fell ill at a church service last November in Caspar and after that the people of Wyoming elected him to a third term in the Senate with 70 percent of the vote. The doctors said he would be back here in January, and he beat their predictions by a month. He was here in December. 
   "Craig suffered quietly over the last half year as all of us hoped for the best. It wasn't to be. Every year Craig pressed for a day that would memorialize the iconic status of the cowboy in American history, a day that honored their courage, hard work, honesty and grit. I can think of no better way of honoring that spirit than by honoring this man who embodied it to the full. 
   "By his devotion to family, country, constituents and friends, Craig Lyle Thomas showed us what it means to be an American. He embodied the best ideals of a Wyoming cowboy - and made the Senate, and those who had the privilege of knowing him, far better for it. 
   "We mourn with Susan, Craig's children, and Craig's staff here in the Senate. We honor them, today, too, for their model of professionalism and caring concern they have shown over the last difficult months. 
   "We'll miss Craig terribly, his calm toughness, his drive, his cowboy spirit, but we're consoled by the thought that he will ride again, restored in body and flashing a smile as he goes."
 
 