SEN. MCCONNELL: LET'S PREVENT MIDDLE CLASS TAX HIKE NOW, PROVIDE CERTAINTY TO TAXPAYERS
  U.S. Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell delivered the following remarks on the Senate floor Wednesday regarding the Republican proposal to stop the middle class tax hike known as the AMT:  
   "Last week our friends on the other side pulled the Housing Bill. But the problem the bill was meant to address didn't go away. 
   "The effects of the housing downturn continue to spread. 
   "Yesterday the Fed Chairman called for a 'vigorous response' from banks and lenders. 
   "He said aggressive action by lenders would help stressed homeowners -- and help ensure the health and well-being of the broader U.S. economy. 
   "Well, Republicans have been saying the same thing about Congress's response to the housing crisis for two weeks. 
   "The Democrat plan for stressed homeowners is to raise monthly mortgage payments on those who buy new homes or refinance existing ones. 
   "Republicans have a different view. We want to expand the family budget, not the federal budget, by helping homeowners with targeted assistance and homebuyer tax credits that will make the problem better, not worse. 
   "And we have a concrete plan to foster the conditions that lead to more homeownership by protecting existing jobs, creating new jobs, increasing wages, and keeping taxes low. 
   "Among the things we can do to keep taxes low is to patch the loophole that threatens tens of millions of middle-class Americans with a giant AMT tax this year. 
   "There is no reason we can't come together now and remove any doubt Americans have about paying a tax that threatens to cost them, on average, $2,000 more in taxes this year. 
   "We patch the AMT every year--and because it was never meant to hit middle class taxpayers in the first place, we patch it without creating new taxes somewhere else. 
   "In the current economy, we should spare taxpayers the political theatre of waiting until the last minute to go through with this annual charade. 
   "Last night, the Budget Chairman said that the Democratic Budget proposal this year will include an AMT patch without an accompanying tax hike. 
   "This is good news. And it's just one more reason we shouldn't put off passing the AMT. 
   "If this is what the Chairman intends, we should follow through on it now to give taxpayers added certainty. 
   "We should remove the doubt about the AMT now, so Americans who are worried about the economy have one less thing to be concerned about. 
   "Last year, a Democrat-led standoff over passing an AMT patch threatened to delay tax returns for 50 million taxpayers totaling about $75 billion in refunds. 
   "In this economy, we can't play these kinds of games. 
   "We now know we'll patch the AMT at some point this year. 
   "We should give some comfort to taxpayers by doing it now. 
   "It's time we put American families' budgets in front of the ever-expanding federal budget."
 
 