SEN. MCCONNELL CALLS FOR QUICK PASSAGE OF BIPARTISAN ECONOMIC GROWTH PACKAGE
  U.S. Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell delivered the following remarks on the Senate floor Wednesday urging Senators to reject the overloaded Senate Democrat economic growth package in favor of the bipartisan House-passed package and the McConnell-Stevens amendment. The McConnell-Stevens amendment would ensure that disabled veterans and their widows, as well as low-income seniors receive a rebate check, and to ensure that those who have entered the country illegally do not. 
   "In a few moments we're going to have an extremely important vote. Nineteen days ago the President first proposed an economic stimulus package and implored Congress to act.  
   "It was impressive to see the Democratic Speaker of the House, the Republican Leader of the House, and the Secretary of the Treasury of the Bush Administration all together having worked out an important stimulus package that we believe will help our economy. 
   "Then in an apparent jolt of nostalgia for last year, Senate Democrats decided to co-op a bipartisan proposal produced by the House to put together a carefully crafted political document coming out of the Finance Committee. 
   "Mr. President, it may be a good proposal in some respects, and I'm sure it contains a lot of things that are appealing to members, but the point here was to try to do a targeted temporary jolt to our economy and to try to astonish the American people by doing it on a bipartisan basis rapidly. 
   "This package will not achieve that result. 
   "There is an opportunity, however, to do that. 
   "First we must defeat the Reid proposal and then there will be an opportunity to adjust the House proposal in a way that is acceptable to the Speaker of the House, the Republican Leader of the House, and the President of the United States, thereby achieving an early signature. 
   "So I will offer, along with Senator Stevens, after the Reid proposal does not achieve cloture, an amendment to the House-passed bill that will deal with social security, with veterans, and with the immigration problem. And with regard to the veterans piece of it, one of the deficiencies of the Finance Committee or Reid proposal is that it does not cover the widows of veterans. 
   "That omission will be corrected in the proposal that I will offer so if we want to provide this stimulative effect for the widows of veterans, a way to do that and the way to do it in a proposal that will be signed by the President of the United States, approved by the House of Representatives on an overwhelming bipartisan basis, is to approve the McConnell-Stevens amendment. 
   "Now, let me say, Senator Stevens and I don't have any pride of authorship. If it will help us get this job done, we can call it the Reid-Obama-Clinton proposal as far as I'm concerned. 
   "The goal here is not so much to claim credit as it is to astonish the American people and do something on a bipartisan basis and do it quickly. Do it quickly. People will be astonished. And we thank the markets and others around the world will watch in amazement to see that on a bipartisan basis, the United States government could do something effective and fast. 
   "So I would be more than happy to change the name of the amendment if that would make it more palatable. We have no particular pride of authorship. This whole path that we're going down started out with bipartisanship and I was hoping that we would end it on a bipartisan basis, and as far as the credit part of it is concerned, we could all take credit, we could go upstairs to the gallery together, Senator Reid and myself side by side, and say we came together, we did something important for the American people. The House can simply take this up. 
   "We know, the House Majority Leader Hoyer implored us just today not to load it up with too many extras that would imperil the bill. He was referring, of course, to the one upon which we will be having a cloture vote shortly 
   "So the way forward is clear, let's defeat the proposal that we know will not be accepted by the House, that we know will not be signed by the President. Modify the House bill. We can call it the Reid-Clinton-Obama bill as far as I'm concerned. Get it back over to the House. We have the assurance that they will take it up, pass it, send it to the President for signature. 
   "But first we must defeat the Reid Finance Committee package."
 
 