'THE ECONOMY DOESN'T HAVE TIME FOR POLITICAL GAMES,' SEN. MCCONNELL SAYS
  U.S. Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell delivered the following remarks on the Senate floor Wednesday regarding the need to quickly pass the economic growth package, and the McConnell-Stevens amendment that would add low-income seniors and disabled veterans while ensuring that those who have entered the country illegally would not receive rebate checks:  
   "It's been 19 days since the President called for a stimulus plan - and economists called for swift action on it. 
   "Republicans and Democrats in the House got the message: they made some hard choices, showed restraint, and forged a bipartisan compromise within days. 
   "Unfortunately, Senate Democrats didn't follow suit. They turned the idea into a political game, with the head of their campaign committee calling for 'tough votes.' 
   "The American people are tired of political 'gotcha.' 
   "We don't have time for it. The economy needs a boost now. 
   "So I think we need to step back and ask ourselves what this exercise was all about in the first place. 
   "My preference is to modify the House package to include rebate checks for seniors and disabled veterans, but not for illegal immigrants. 
   "The White House and the Treasury Secretary have indicated support for such a plan, so we can expect it will be signed into law. 
   "Meanwhile, we have no such assurances for the alternative, larger proposal Senate Democrats are still hashing out. 
   "We read just this morning that 'negotiations are still ongoing' among Democrats about what to include in the final package. 
   "We started out united behind a proposal to help struggling taxpayers and stimulate the economy. Now some are insisting on a plan that may not even be signed into law. 
   "But there's still another choice. 
   "We can still pass a bill that is targeted and timely, and which helps seniors and disabled veterans - and that's the amendment I'll be offering later today with Senator Stevens. 
   "The Reid Amendment, by contrast, is a Christmas tree of legislative goodies that might not even get signed. 
   "So should the Reid Amendment fail, we should immediately move to include seniors and disabled veterans, exclude those who are not legal citizens, then quickly pass the good, bipartisan House-passed bill and send it down to the White House for a signature. 
   "To do less would break faith with the American People, who were told nearly three weeks ago they could expect relief. 
   "I urge my colleagues and the whole body to support it, so we can deliver timely help to the American People."
 
 