SEN. MCCONNELL: TAX HIKES 'NOT THE WILL OF THE SENATE'
  U.S. Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell delivered the following remarks on the Senate floor Thursday regarding the need to stop the middle class tax hike known as the AMT, and the Democrats' plan to raise taxes:
   "For the last few days, I have come to the floor to propose a number of potential remedies Congress could employ to address the current housing downturn -- remedies aimed at helping those who are struggling most and at creating new opportunities for others. 
   "In this economy, Congress has a role to play: and that role is to help those in urgent need while at the same time taking a longer view of the economy and its future strength.
   "Taxes are an area where Congress can clearly play a helpful or a harmful role -- so the debate over the looming AMT tax, which is set to hit millions of middle-class Americans with an average tax hike of about $2,000 this year -- is extremely important.
   "Last year, at a time when there was less concern about the economy overall, both parties agreed that a tax which was never meant to hit the middle-class should be blocked.
   "More than 170,000 families in my own state of Kentucky are in danger of being hit with the AMT tax this year.
   "Nearly 900,000 taxpayers in Florida are in danger of getting hit by it.
   "It's about the same number in Texas and Illinois and Massachusetts and Pennsylvania.
   "In Ohio, nearly 900,000 taxpayers are expected to get hit.
   "And then there's New York and California: In New York, more than three million families are in danger of getting hit with the AMT this year.
   "And in California, nearly four and a half million families and individuals are in danger of being stuck with this tax.
   "Last year Republicans insisted that if we were going to protect people from a tax they were never meant to pay, this meant not raising some other tax on them somewhere else.
   "Senate Democrats came to share that view, too.
   "This year, Senate Democrats have wisely opted in their Budget Resolution to take the same approach that prevailed last year: no new tax to cover the AMT patch. 
   "House Democrats, on the other hand, have opted for a different approach: they want to raise taxes by more than $60 billion to pay for the AMT.
   "And they want to do it by circumventing the legislative process.
   "They should know this from the outset: Senate Republicans will oppose this stealth and unfair tax hike, and we fully expect that it will fail.
   "As the Chairman of the Budget Committee has said: raising taxes to pay for the AMT 'is not the will of the Senate.'
   "Republicans stood strong for two basic principles last year when it came to the budget: The tax burden is already too high for working families and the businesses that create jobs in this country and spending needs to be kept in check -- to the President's top line.
   "We not only insisted on these principles -- we fought for them.
   "And, on behalf of the American taxpayer, we prevailed.
   "I have no doubt we will have similar success this year.
   "Republicans fought hard for fiscal discipline last year, at a time when the economy was not the central concern of the American people.
   "At a time when it is, we cannot be talking about raising taxes by tens of billions of dollars.
   "We need to be expanding the family budget, not the federal one.
   "The House should know that in this economy, this is a principle Senate Republicans will defend aggressively."
 
 