SEN. MCCONNELL SECURES BUYOUT FOR KENTUCKY'S TOBACCO GROWERS
  Sen. Mitch McConnell (R-KY) today was successful in securing a buyout for tobacco quota owners and growers in the Conference Report to H.R. 4520, which now faces a final vote in the House and Senate later this week.  
   The buyout provides payments of $7 per pound to quota holders and $3 per pound to growers. The payments, based on the 2002 quota level, would be distributed over a ten-year period. The funds required will be obtained from manufacturers and importers of all tobacco products sold in the United States and will total $10.14 billion. Of that amount, Kentucky tobacco quota holders and growers are expected to receive nearly $2.5 billion. 
   "To be honest, there were plenty of times when I thought this day wouldn't come, but today we are on the verge of a historic event for Kentucky," said Senator McConnell. "Achieving a buyout for our tobacco growers has been a long and difficult process, but one that was vital for our farmers and their families. I am confident the final bill will contain a tobacco buyout and I will continue to fight until the President signs it into law." 
   McConnell has played a vital role in securing a buyout for Kentucky's tobacco growers. In 1998, Senator McConnell was the first to propose a buyout of the tobacco program, but this measure failed due to a lack of support from grower groups and a lack of consensus among elected representatives from tobacco producing states. 
   On July 30, 2003, Senator McConnell made another attempt and introduced a buyout proposal for tobacco quota owners and growers. "The Tobacco Market Transition Act of 2003" was supported by every senator from the six leading tobacco-producing states. This measure served as the basis for what was agreed to in Conference today. 
   And finally, earlier this year, Senator McConnell led the efforts to get a tobacco buyout included in H.R. 4520. This version was passed by the Senate on July 15, 2004, and was sent to a Conference Committee to reconcile the differences in the House and Senate bills. Senator McConnell served as a member of the House/Senate Conference Committee. The bill, including the buyout proposal negotiated by McConnell, was approved by the committee and now awaits final action by the House and Senate.
 
 