SEN. MCCONNELL SPEAKS ON GEN. PETRAEUS, AMBASSADOR CROCKER HEARINGS
  U.S. Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell delivered the following remarks on the Senate floor Tuesday regarding the Petraeus-Crocker hearings:
   "Now to the testimony: General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker will be here today and tomorrow with an eagerly-anticipated update on political and military progress in Iraq.
   "Less than a year after our counterinsurgency plan went into full effect, we've been getting a steady flow of positive reports on the security situation in Iraq. 
   "Overall violence in Iraq is down.
   "Civilian deaths are down.
   "Sectarian killing is down.
   "Attacks on American forces are down.
   "And, as a result of all this, thousands of U.S. troops have already started to come home.
   "Another measure of the Petraeus plan's success is the dramatic increase in Iraqi Security Forces since the full implementation of the counterinsurgency strategy last June.
   "Between December 2007 and last month, Iraqi Security Forces have increased by more than 40,000 - bringing the total number to more than 530,000.
   "This includes 141,000 assigned soldiers and officers and a police force 347,000 strong.
   "Over the last year, this so-called 'surge' of Iraqi Security Forces has been three to four times larger than our own. And as we stand here, the Iraqi Security Forces continue to expand, with young Iraqis signing up for local police forces, to protect the border, and for special operations.
   "As the Iraqis take over more of their own security needs, Congress can help by passing a supplemental appropriations bill that's been on request for more than a year.
   "These funds are also needed to ensure the combat readiness of the force, and for our forces in Afghanistan.
   "Increased security in Iraq has led to political progress in Iraq.
   "Though significant benchmarks remain unmet, progress on other significant benchmarks that seemed far off just a few months ago is now underway.
   "These include passage and approval of de-Baathification legislation; an amnesty law; and measures leading to a greater centralization of Iraqi security forces.
   "It's also worth noting that the Iraqi government has started to meet more of its own expenses, including three-fourths of the cost of its security forces and a new jobs program.
   "The success of General Petraeus's strategy is the best reason we have for listening closely to his advice moving forward. Last August, he said security and local political progress will enable us to reduce the number of U.S. troops to pre-surge levels.
   "And we have reason to hope the progress that's been made both politically and in security will in fact lead to a reduction in troop levels. But General Petraeus has a better grasp than most on whether the gains we have seen are secure enough for a full reduction to begin.
   "For the sake of our long-term security, we should listen closely to what he says.
   "When Democrats on the campaign trail tout their plans for Iraq and Afghanistan they often cite the need to listen to the generals. The Senior Senator from New York likes to say that one of her first actions as President would be to convene the Joint Chiefs of Staff to help her draw up a plan for withdrawal of U.S. troops from Iraq. If military advice is needed to draw up plans for withdrawal, shouldn't it be important in drawing up plans for success?
   "Our friends on the other side are rightly concerned about military readiness. I share their concern. But the best way to ensure the military's readiness is not to scrap a plan that's been working in Iraq. The best way to improve readiness is to approve the Defense supplemental, without arbitrary dates for withdrawal, and to fully fund the 2009 Defense Appropriations bill.
   "Like most Americans, I'm eager to hear what General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker have to say about military and political progress in Iraq.
   "These men have spent decades mastering their respective professional fields. They deserve our respect. And over the last year, they have earned our admiration.
   "I know we will all welcome them and give them the fair hearing that they have earned, and that this all-important mission deserves."
 
 