SEN. MCCONNELL'S REMARKS ON NSA TERRORIST SURVEILLANCE PROGRAM
  U.S. Senate Majority Whip Mitch McConnell delivered the following floor statement today on the NSA Terrorist Surveillance Program:
   "Mr. President, today America is at war. We were awakened to this war on September 11, 2001, even though our enemies had been waging it for a number of years. The enemy is Al Qaeda, a treacherous terrorist group whose goal is, simply, to kill as many Americans as possible, and to strike such fear into civilized nations that freedom itself is forced into retreat. 
   "To combat this deadly threat, the President has rightly asserted his Constitutional authority to use every tool at his disposal to fight the War on Terror. One of those tools is the NSA's terrorist surveillance program.
   "Yet, despite the grave terrorist threat, I fear too many have forgotten we are a nation at war, and so have forgotten the vital need for the terrorist surveillance program. Perhaps it is because we have not seen another attack on American soil since September 11, despite the terrorists' best efforts.
   "But there can be no doubt that Al Qaeda terrorists are still plotting brutal attacks against this country--and other freedom-loving countries.
   "For proof of this, look no further than a recent audiotape made by Osama Bin Laden himself. In a tape aired on Al-Jazeera television last month, Bin Laden said this: "The mujahadeen, with God's grace, have managed repeatedly to penetrate all security measures adopted by the unjust allied countries. The proof of that is the explosions you have seen in the capitals of the European nations who are in this aggressive coalition."
   "He went on: "Similar operations happening in America....are under preparation, and you will see them in your homes the minute they are through."
   "It couldn't be any clearer than that, Mr. President. Osama Bin Laden said, "The operations are under preparation, and you will see them in your homes the minute they are through."
   "At this very moment, Al Qaeda operatives in America--madmen like Mohammed Atta--may be plotting attacks. What kinds of attacks could they be hatching?
   "Well, here is one example. In 2003, authorities apprehended a man named Iyman Faris for assisting Al Qaeda in plotting and planning a terrorist attack. Faris is an American citizen. He lived in Ohio before being taken into federal custody.
   "In 2002, Faris traveled to Pakistan, where he met with known members of Al Qaeda. The terrorists told him they were planning attacks in New York and Washington, D.C., and asked if he would help.
   "So Faris elected to return to America, visit New York City, and reconnoiter the Brooklyn Bridge, with the intent of finding the best means to destroy it. He even went so far as to research how to sever the cables supporting the bridge. Approximately 135,000 vehicles cross the Brooklyn Bridge every day, Mr. President.
   "According to the Washington Post, government officials have privately credited Faris's arrest to the President's terrorist surveillance program. Faris has since pleaded guilty to having plotted to destroy the Brooklyn Bridge.
   "This time, the terrorists did not succeed. But as we all know, while our goal is to stop them every time, their goal is to succeed just once.
   "To uncover and disrupt attacks like this, a President must aggressively use every tool at his disposal to exercise his authority under the Constitution to protect America. To do any less would be a dereliction of duty.
   "A major part of the War on Terror is the terrorist surveillance program. This very narrowly tailored program intercepts international communications--not domestic, even though that word has been used a lot, in error--international communications by members of Al Qaeda or other suspected terrorist groups outside America into this country, or by those terrorists' allies in this country out to terrorists in foreign lands.
   "Public mischaracterizations have portrayed this terrorist surveillance program as something ominous, as if the government is listening in to domestic phone calls made by average, law-abiding Americans. That is flat out wrong. If someone is calling from Tora Bora, they're not calling to order a pizza. Let me repeat, If someone is calling from Tora Bora, they're not calling to order a pizza.
   "The NSA is only interested in Al Qaeda sleeper agents in the United States, men like Iyman Faris, the Brooklyn Bridge bomber, who call or receive calls from known agents of Al Qaeda or affiliated terrorist groups abroad with instructions for their next deadly mission.
   "The NSA terrorist surveillance program is not only entirely necessary, it is entirely lawful. The President enjoys broad authority under the Constitution to protect Americans. And the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court of Review--the court charged with reviewing the legality of measures like the terrorist surveillance program--has confirmed that the President has broad powers with respect to foreign intelligence gathering.
   "That court - the FISA court - wrote in 2002 that, with respect to conducting searches without warrants in order to obtain foreign intelligence information, quote: "We take for granted that the President does have that authority, and, assuming that is so, FISA could not encroach on the President's constitutional power."
   "If that is not enough legal authority, here's more. Congress delegated broad war powers to the President when it authorized the War on Terror in 2001. The Senate passed that authorization 98 to zero--with the support of many of the same Democrats who vehemently speak against the program today.
   "That authorization empowered the President to "use all necessary and appropriate force" to fight terror. It did not say "some force." It did not say "all force except when it comes to international communications intercepts." It did not even say, "all force now, less later, depending on the political landscape."
   "It said "all force." And "all force" means "all force," Mr. President.
   "However, opponents of the terrorist surveillance program apparently don't want to allow the President to use all the force at his disposal to fight terror. Howard Dean, the Chairman of the Democratic Party, recently expressed his strong disapproval this way:
   "Dean said, "President Bush's secret program to spy on the American people reminds Americans of the abuse of power during the dark days of President Nixon and Vice President Agnew."
   "That's from the leader of the Democratic Party. Mr. President, Howard Dean completely misses the point.
   "The terrorist surveillance program intercepts calls between known Al Qaeda terrorists and their affiliates overseas, and Al Qaeda terrorist accomplices here in America. As the President has said, if you're calling Al Qaeda, we want to know why.
   "The only conclusion one can draw from statements like Mr. Dean's--statements that explicitly compare programs that stop terrorists who want to destroy the Brooklyn Bridge to illegal activity from a generation ago--is that he opposes this program and wants it stopped.
   "Mr. President, we can't fight the War on Terror with one hand tied behind our back.
   "That is exactly the wrong direction we need to take in the War on Terror. After more than four years since the devastating attack of September 11, this is still a hard-fought battle. Al Qaeda's leader, Osama Bin Laden himself, has bragged about impending attacks.
   "If anyone doubts the death-crazed tenacity of our enemies, let them hear these words, also from the Bin Laden audiotape I quoted earlier: "We will seek revenge all our lives. The nights and days will not pass without us taking vengeance like on September 11, God permitting. Your minds will be troubled and your lives embittered."
   "Our enemy is cunning and cruel. We must be aggressive about using every tool at our disposal to fight the War on Terror. I applaud the President for doing just that, and for remaining unbowed in the face of loud criticism from a few as he continues to carry out his duty to protect America.
   "I yield the floor."
 
 