SEN. MCCONNELL COMMENTS ON 98TH ANNIVERSARY OF FOUNDING OF BOY SCOUTS OF AMERICA
  U.S. Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell on Friday delivered the following remarks on the Senate floor marking the 98th anniversary of the founding of the Boy Scouts of America.  
   "Today marks the 98th anniversary of the founding of the Boy Scouts of America. William D. Boyce incorporated the Boy Scouts of America, or BSA, on February 8, 1910. 
   "Boy Scouting had already been established in Great Britain a few years earlier by the father of Scouting, General Robert Baden-Powell, when the American William Boyce paid a visit to that country. Legend has it that the Chicago publisher found himself lost on a foggy London street. 
   "A Boy Scout came to his aid and led him to his destination. When Boyce offered the boy a tip, he refused, saying that as a Scout it was his duty to do a good turn. 
   "Mr. Boyce was so impressed with the character of this young scout--who remains unknown today--that he was inspired to learn all he could about the British organization and create something like it in America. Congress granted BSA a charter in 1916. 
   "Today, nearly 3 million boys and over 1 million adult leaders participate in Boy Scouting. It is one of our country's most vital institutions to teach character, leadership and civic responsibility to our children. BSA membership since 1910 totals more than 111 million. 
   "With programs including Tiger Cubs, Cub Scouting, Webelos, Varsity Scouting and Venturing, boys from as young as 7 to as old as 20 have the opportunity to participate in Boy Scouting. With parents often serving as adult leaders, Boy Scouting is a family activity. 
   "Boys who are successful in Scouting often grow up to be successful in life--and my colleagues in this chamber can attest to that. We have 35 former Boy Scouts in the Senate of the 110th Congress, and 147 in the House of Representatives. And this Senate has 10 members who earned Scouting's highest distinction, the rank of Eagle Scout. 
   "Every Boy Scout learns at his first meeting the Scout Law, which states: 'A Scout is trustworthy, loyal, helpful, friendly, courteous, kind, obedient, cheerful, thrifty, brave, clean and reverent.' 
   "Our country is stronger because millions of boys have learned these words. They are the values of Scouting, and they are the values of America."
 
 