SEN. MCCONNELL ISSUES STATEMENT ON VETERANS DAY
  'We also remember this Veterans Day those who will soon be called veterans, the men and women in Afghanistan and Iraq who have volunteered to protect us in this new era' 
   "Eighty-nine years ago this Sunday, the guns fell silent in Europe. It was the end of a global conflict so savage that many people doubted anyone would ever want to start a war again. New technologies had clashed with old ways of fighting to create new horrors and apocalyptic battles like the Somme, which tested not only the limits of armies but our powers of comprehension.  
   "America had no role in starting the war, but we played a decisive one in ending it. Our Doughboys earned the gratitude of entire nations. They gave their countrymen a new sense of purpose. And America would always remember Armistice Day, as President Wilson said, with 'solemn pride in the heroism of those who died in the country's service and with gratitude for the victory ?' 
   "As we all know, the War to End All Wars did not live up to its name. Just eleven years after it ended, a former corporal from the German Army who had fought on the Western Front was already building a regime that would bring new horrors. At the end of World War I, museums were dedicated to the memory of war. But soon enough even 'Big Willie,' the first tank, was being rolled out of one of those museums and converted into shells and shrapnel for another terrible war. 
   "And again, the world would turn to America for help. More than 16 million U.S. servicemen would be called upon to defend the cause of freedom against tyranny and terror in World War II - young men like Second Lieutenant Dan Inouye from Honolulu and a 19-year-old surfer from Manhattan Beach, California, named Ted Stevens. 
   "It has been noted that when American servicemen came home from World War II, no one said, 'We Won!' They said 'It's over!' Because, as President Roosevelt once observed, 'The primary purpose of the United States of America is to avoid being drawn into war.' When called, our young men and women have served. But when the fight is over, they just want to go home. 
   "And World War II was like that. Everybody just picked up where they left off, stepped right back into the assembly line, or the office, or the baseball diamond, or the boxing ring. These are the humble heroes of our country, the only aristocrats in a democracy - men and women who risk their lives so we can live in freedom and peace. And who ask nothing in return but to return to their hometowns and to carry on as they please. 
   "And so it's up to us to speak well of them, to honor them in special ceremonies and songs and in this annual day of remembrance that for the last fifty-three years we have referred to simply as Veterans Day. Since 1954, Americans have paused on November 11 not just to remember the men who fought in the Great War, but those who fought in all our wars: from Valley Forge to Antietam, from the beaches of France to the jungles of Vietnam - paused to remember and to thank them for what they have done for us and for the 'millions not yet born' whose freedom will rest on their sacrifice. 
   "We also remember this Veterans Day those who will soon be called veterans, the men and women in Afghanistan and Iraq who have volunteered to protect us in this new era from new horrors and the many men and women who have died in this struggle for freedom - people like Sergeant William Bowling, of Beattyville, Kentucky, a shy but proud husband and father who was killed earlier this year by a roadside bomb while patrolling the streets of Baghdad. 
   "Like so many before him, Sgt. Bowling threw himself into his mission. 'This is the job he wanted to do,' his wife Jennifer said shortly after his death. 'He wanted to serve his country.' 
   "By his courage and devotion to duty and the cause of freedom, Sgt. Bowling showed the best that Kentucky and this country have to offer. And he reminds all of us what makes this country great: young men and women who believe that serving others is greater than serving self, and who have proved it in every generation since Yorktown by making the sacrifices freedom too often demands. 
   "There is no greater service to our great nation than the one Sgt. Bowling gave on a dusty road in Baghdad. And there is no greater hope for humanity than men and women like him. They come from places like Honolulu and Manhattan Beach. They come from places like Beattyville. 
   "And we pray to God that they continue to come."
 
 