RURAL SERVICE IMPROVEMENT ACT CHANGES ENSURE VIABILTY OF BYPASS MAIL - PASSENGER AIR SERVICE
  Senate has approved the Postal Accountability and Enhancement Act, S. 662. The act, co-sponsored by Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska), includes an amendment to the Rural Service Improvement Act (RSIA) of 2002. RSIA directs the United States Postal Service (USPS) to enter into agreements with air carriers to deliver bypass mail throughout rural Alaska. These agreements ensure that Alaskans living in remote communities receive mail in a timely manner and have access to reliable air passenger services.  
   The amendment allows the USPS to assign a larger share of mail to air carriers offering the safest passenger air service to rural Alaska. It improves the safety of passenger air service in Alaska, and allows the USPS to assign mail in an efficient and cost effective manner. 
   The amendment also changes qualifications for mail delivered by bush air carriers. Previous legislation stipulated that passenger air carriers retain 20% of the market to qualify to deliver bypass mail, resulting in many rural communities being served by only one qualified passenger air carrier. However, to increase the passenger air service to rural Alaska, RSIA now stipulates that the USPS may also assign mail to other passenger air carriers that service a minimum of 10% of the passenger share. This change ensures that rural Alaska communities will have at least a minimum level of their passenger air service needs met. 
   "The bypass mail system has become a way of life for our rural communities, for our carriers, and is an essential part of our mail and transportation system. It is a partnership between Alaska air carriers and the U.S. Postal Service that we must continue," said Stevens. "This legislation seeks to make the bypass mail system more cost effective for the U.S. Postal Service and to ensure passenger air service to our rural communities. By working with both the Postal Service and our air carriers, we have been able to meet Alaska's needs." 
   The Postal Accountability and Enhancement Act has been referred to conference with the U.S. House of Representatives. Senator Stevens has been named a conferee to that conference.
   Contact: Courtney Boone, 202/224-1028; Janel Anderson, 202/224-5122.
 
 