SEN. STEVENS ANNOUNCES PROMOTIONS FOR COMMUNICATIONS STAFF
  Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) today announced promotions for three members of his communications staff.  
   Aaron Saunders has been promoted to Communications Director after serving as Senator Stevens' Press Secretary. He previously worked as the Senator's Press Secretary and then Communications Director on the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee. Prior to his move to the Committee in February 2005, Saunders worked in Senator Stevens' personal office beginning in 2003, where he served as Deputy Press Secretary and Press Assistant. Before moving to Washington, D.C., Saunders worked as the Public Relations Manager for the Alaska SeaLife Center in Seward, Alaska from 2000 to 2003. Saunders earned a Master's degree in political communication from Georgetown University in December 2006. He graduated cum laude from Miami University in Oxford, Ohio, in 1999 with majors in history and American studies. He is a native of Piqua, Ohio. 
   Brian Hughes has been promoted to Speechwriter after working as a Staff Assistant on Senator Stevens' communications team since January 2006. Hughes graduated summa cum laude from Washington State University in 2006, where he completed a business degree in finance and a minor in history. Originally from Anchorage, Hughes previously spent two summers interning in Senator Stevens' Washington, D.C. office. He served as a college intern in 2004 and helped coordinate the Senator's high school internship program in 2005. 
   Steve Wackowski has been promoted to Special Assistant and Deputy Press Secretary. Wackowski previously worked for Senator Stevens as a Professional Staff member on the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee, where he specialized in policy related to oceans, atmosphere, and maritime issues. A native of Anchorage, Wackowski earned degrees in computer science and political science from Saint Mary's College of California in 2005. Steve was also enrolled in Air Force Reserve Officers' Training Corps at the University of California-Berkeley for five years and earned a commission in the Air Force Reserve upon graduation. He is stationed for Air Force Reserve duty at the Pentagon's Air Force Combat Support Office, and has served in both Iraq and Afghanistan.
 
 