COMMERCE COMMITTEE APPROVES LEGISLATION TO IMPROVE NATION'S TSUNAMI PREPAREDNESS
  The U.S. Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation today approved by voice vote the "Tsunami Preparedness Act" (S. 50), introduced by Sen. Daniel Inouye (D-Hawaii) and co-sponsored by Sens. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) and Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska). 
   The legislation approved today:
   * Directs the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) to repair, expand and modernize the existing warning system by the close of calendar year 2007. The system would include four components: 
   (1) A detection and warning system for both the Pacific and the Atlantic; 
   (2) A modernization and upgrade program for the U.S. system; 
   (3) An expanded federal-state Tsunami Hazard Mitigation Program; and 
   (4) A tsunami research program
   * Directs NOAA to provide any necessary technical or other assistance to international efforts to establish regional systems in other parts of the world, including the Indian Ocean. 
   * Authorizes $35 million for each of fiscal years (FY) 2006 through 2012 to carry out the tsunami-related activities. 
   The Committee unanimously approved a Manager's Amendment by Senators Inouye, Stevens, Smith and Cantwell that made some clarifying and technical changes to the bill as introduced and added a new section to address coastal community preparedness for all coastal hazards, whether hurricane, tsunami, sea level rise, or coastal flooding events. The new section also authorizes NOAA to fund three regional pilot projects that would integrate federal, state, and local hazard preparedness and response programs for a variety of coastal hazards that will meet local needs and serve as models for the nation. The amendment authorizes $5 million annually for fiscal years 2006-2012 for the coastal preparedness program, of which at least $3 million shall be used for the three regional pilot projects. The amendment also strengthened the international elements of the bill. 
   The bill now proceeds to the full Senate for its consideration.
   Contact: Melanie Alvord and Aaron Saunders, 202/224-8456, 202/224-3991; Andy Davis, 202/224-4546.
 
 