SEN. STEVENS HIRES LOWE AS CHIEF-OF-STAFF, PROMOTES WALLER TO NEW LEGISLATIVE DIRECTOR
  George Lowe has returned to Sen. Ted Stevens' office as Chief of Staff after serving as Chief of Staff to Sen. Lisa Murkowski in 2004. 
   Lowe previously served Stevens as Legislative Director from 2002 to 2004, and as Chief Counsel and Legislative Assistant prior to that. Lowe has handled a wide range of issues for Senator Stevens including terrorism, natural resources, the judiciary, veterans, foreign affairs, and amateur sports and Olympics. 
   Originally from Anchorage, George Lowe, is a 1988 West High graduate and received his bachelor's of science in political science from the University of Oregon in 1993. He was Assistant Sergeant-At-Arms for the Alaska State Senate before going to work for Senator Stevens from 1994-1997. During those years Lowe was a Legislative Correspondent covering education, health care, welfare, sports, and foreign affairs. Lowe attended and graduated from law school at the University Of San Diego School Of Law in 2000 and subsequently passed the Alaska Bar and returned to Washington, D.C. to rejoin the Stevens' staff. 
   Karina Waller has been promoted to Legislative Director after serving as Legislative Assistant from 2002 - 2004. As Legislative Director she will continue to handle a wide range of issues including energy, foreign affairs, agriculture, lands issues, natural resources and economic development as well as help set the Senator's legislative policy. 
   Waller, also from Anchorage, is a 1993 graduate of Robert Service High School and received her bachelor's of arts in political science from Colorado State University in 1997. Ms. Waller is a cum laude graduate of American University Washington College of Law (2001) and the American University School of International Service (2002) where she earned a juris doctorate and a master's of arts in international affairs. She is a member of the Maryland bar. 
   Kate Williams returns to Senator Stevens' office as a Legislative Assistant after earning her law degree from the University of San Diego in 2004. She is a member of the Alaska bar.
   Williams, originally from Juneau, is a 1995 graduate of Juneau-Douglas High School. She received her bachelor's of arts in economics from the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill in 1999. Prior to going to law school, Williams worked for Senator Stevens as a Legislative Correspondent covering health and social issues from 1999-2001. As a Legislative Assistant she will handle the budget, election law, government contracting, the judiciary, small business and taxes.
   Todd Bertoson rejoins Senator Stevens' staff as a Legislative Assistant after earning his juris doctorate from the University of Washington, School of Law in 2004. 
   Bertoson is a graduate of the University of Washington, where he earned a bachelor's of arts in business administration. He has also studied at the East China University of Law and Politics and the Chinese University of Hong Kong. Bertoson put his extensive experience in the fishing industry to use when was a legal extern for Senator Stevens working on maritime and fisheries related issues in 2003. As a Legislative Assistant he will cover homeland security, surface transportation, maritime issues, marine mammals and fisheries.
   Contact: Courtney Boone, 202/224-1028.
 
 