SEN. STEVENS HONORED AT NOAA'S 200TH ANNIVERSARY EVENT
  The NOAA 200th Celebration Committee last evening honored Senators Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) and Daniel Inouye (D-Hawaii) for their longstanding commitment to the atmospheric sciences and their support for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA). NOAA provides numerous important products and services as part of the Department of Commerce, such as daily weather forecasts, severe storm warnings, climate monitoring, fisheries management, coastal restoration, and supporting marine commerce. 
  In the 110th Congress, Senator Stevens championed a variety of oceans-related measures that were signed into law. The reauthorization of the Magnuson-Stevens Act was perhaps the most comprehensive piece of environmental legislation passed during the last Congress. The President also signed into law Stevens-sponsored bills to enhance the U.S.' tsunami warning system and to clean up marine debris. 
  "NOAA has a long and distinguished record of serving our country in the areas of ocean and climate science," said Senator Stevens. "Given our vast coastline, commercial fishing activities, and dependence on aviation, Alaskans are particularly reliant on NOAA for weather forecasting and storm warnings. NOAA plays a critical role in keeping Alaskans safe in our often harsh coastal environment."
  In 1807, President Thomas Jefferson founded the U.S. Coast and Geodetic Survey to provide nautical charts to the U.S. maritime community, creating the nation's first scientific agency. In later years, the Weather Bureau and U.S. Commission on Fish and Fisheries were founded. These agencies were later brought together in 1970 to establish NOAA.
  The NOAA 200th Celebration Committee is a group of non-profit organizations, trade organizations, and businesses. Committee members represent the Alliance for Earth Observations, American Meteorological Society, Coastal States Organization, Consortium of Oceanographic Research and Education, Fish for the Future Foundation, National Association of Marine Laboratories, National Fisheries Institute, National Marine Manufacturers Association, National Marine Sanctuary Foundation, and the Sea Grant Association.
   Contact: Aaron Saunders, 202/224-1028; Steve Wackowski, 202/224-5122.
 
 