CONGRESS PASSES LEGISLATION TO IMPROVE RURAL AIR AND MAIL SERVICE
  Before adjourning early Saturday morning, the United States Congress approved H.R. 6407, legislation designed to reform postal laws. The act includes an amendment to the Rural Service Improvement Act of 2002, which directs the United States Postal Service to enter into agreements with air carriers to deliver bypass mail throughout rural Alaska. These agreements will ensure that Alaskans living in remote communities receive mail in a timely manner and have access to reliable air passenger services.  
   "The bypass mail system is essential for people living in our state's most remote communities. It is a vital link to other parts of our state and nation," said Senator Ted Stevens, who co-sponsored the Senate version of the legislation. "This bill ensures the critical partnership between Alaska air carriers and the U.S. Postal Service continues and does so in the most cost-effective manner for all entities involved. By working with both the Postal Service and our air carriers, we have been able meet the needs of people in the far corners of our state." 
   The amendment allows the USPS to assign a larger share of mail to air carriers offering the safest passenger air service to rural Alaska. It improves the safety of passenger air service in Alaska and allows the USPS to assign mail in an efficient and cost-effective manner. 
   The amendment also changes qualifications for mail delivered by bush air carriers. Previous legislation stipulated that passenger air carriers must retain at least 20 percent of the market to qualify to deliver bypass mail, resulting in many rural communities being served by only one qualified passenger air carrier. To increase passenger air service to rural Alaska, RSIA now stipulates that the USPS may also assign mail to passenger air carriers that service a minimum of 10 percent of the passenger share. This change ensures that rural Alaska communities will have at least a minimum level of their passenger air service needs met. 
   In addition, H.R. 6407 contains a provision that will ensure the cost of shipping individual packages to and from rural Alaska remains affordable. The bill requires these single parcels to be classified as "market dominant" products, which will guarantee the packages are free of surcharges under the USPS' new pricing system. Without this provision, the USPS estimated that the cost of shipping a package to some rural areas could have increased by 50 percent. 
   The legislation now heads to the President for his signature.
 
 