SEN. STEVENS LEADS EFFORT TO ADVANCE PORT, CARGO, RAIL, AND TRANSIT SECURITY BILL
  Today, Senate Commerce Committee Chairman Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) and Co-Chairman Sen. Daniel Inouye (D-Hawaii) introduced the Maritime, Rail, and Public Transportation Security Act of 2006. Senate Banking Committee Chairman Sen. Richard Shelby (R-Ala.), Ranking Member Sen. Paul Sarbanes (D-Md.), and 37 co-sponsors joined Sen. Stevens and Sen. Inouye in introducing this bipartisan legislation, which enhances the nation's efforts to protect its transportation systems and includes important measures for Alaska.  
   Chairman Stevens said, "One of the lessons we learned from 9/11 is that in order to improve transportation security, we must clearly define our objectives and methods to reach our goals. This bipartisan bill takes significant steps toward securing our transportation systems. The provisions included in this legislation are critical to ensuring safe travel and the flow of interstate commerce." 
   Stevens also emphasized that this bill is particularly important for Alaska. "We have roughly one-half of the nation's coastline, and our ports are a lifeline for our state. 80% of our consumer goods pass through the Port of Anchorage," said Stevens. "This bill will enhance our state's port security and ensure the reliable transport of goods to our communities." 
   The Maritime, Rail, and Public Transportation Security Act of 2006 combines the port, cargo, and rail security provisions of the Commerce Committee's Transportation Security Improvement Act (S. 1052) with the Banking Committee's Public Transportation Terrorism Prevention Act (S. 2032). This legislation comprehensively reforms transportation security for the first time since the enactment of the Maritime Transportation Security Act (MTSA) and the Aviation Transportation Security Act (ATSA) in 2002. 
   The Maritime, Rail, and Public Transportation Security Act of 2006 complements H.R. 4954, port security legislation that was passed in the U.S. House of Representatives on May 4, 2006. 
   A summary of the combined bill and a list of co-sponsors are available at www.stevens.senate.gov.
 
 