SEN. STEVENS REFLECTS ON FIFTH ANNIVERSARY OF SEPT. 11
  Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) today offered the following floor statement reflecting on the tragic events in New York City, Pennsylvania, and Washington, D.C. on September 11, 2001:  
   "Mr. President, there are moments in every lifetime which defy words. For me, those moments are the attack on Pearl Harbor, the day President Kennedy was assassinated, the Good Friday earthquake in Alaska, my own airplane crash in 1978, and the day I viewed the Exxon Valdez oil spill. My most recent and most vivid memory is the helicopter trip I took over Ground Zero with my good friend Senator Inouye on September 13th, 2001. 
   "The total impact of what Senator Inouye and I saw just shocked the two of us. We both went through World War II and saw a lot of trauma, a lot of destruction. But nothing was more stark in terms of our memories, particularly mine, than what I saw that day in New York. 
   "Embedded in my mind then were the questions: Who would do something like this? And why? We would soon learn the answers, and those answers changed our nation forever. 
   "September 11th, 2001 was one of our country's darkest days, Mr. President. But the worst in our enemies brought out the best in our citizens. Their efforts reflected the words of the author Henry James, and I quote: 'We work in the dark, we do what we can, we give what we have.' Following those attacks, Americans did everything they could to help those directly affected. And those of us in Congress almost immediately made $40 billion available to initiate recovery. 
   "Since then our country has been fortunate. We have met the terrorists abroad rather than here on our soil, and we've accomplished this in a way consistent with our ideals. Democracy is harder to move than a dictatorship; it moves slowly, but it moves surely. There is much more work left to do, but so far we have been able to prevent another massive terrorist attack on our country. 
   "The terrorists who attacked us five years ago thought they could defeat us, Mr. President. They questioned our resolve and our dedication to our principles. They were wrong. Our resolve is strong, and it has brought about a different response than the terrorists anticipated. The past five years have been a proving ground for our country's courage and commitment. 
   "Today I am reminded of the words once spoken by President Reagan. He said this, and again I quote: 'Perhaps you and I have lived with this miracle too long to be properly appreciative. Freedom is a fragile thing and is never more than one generation from extinction. It is not ours by inheritance; it must be fought for and defended constantly by each generation, for it comes only once to a people. Those who have known freedom, and then lost it, have never known it again.' 
   "Mr. President, today, we pause to remember those we have lost over the past five years, men and women who sacrificed everything so that this miracle - the Great American Experiment - could continue. Our thoughts and prayers are with them and with their families, and we will remember forever September 11th."
 
 