SEN. STEVENS HIGHLIGHTS BENEFITS OF IMPROVED FEDERAL TELEWORK PROGRAM
  During a subcommittee hearing held today by the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) urged Congress to adopt his legislation to expand telecommuting opportunities for federal employees. This "telework" program allows eligible members of the federal workforce to avoid an often onerous commute by working from home or another remote site.
  In March of this year, Senator Stevens introduced S. 1000, the Telework Enhancement Act, which would make all federal employees eligible for telework unless employers specifically show why they should not participate in the program. Under existing law, federal employees are not able to participate in the telework program until they are deemed eligible by their employing agency.  
  "It is time for the federal government to take a serious look at our current telework program," said Senator Stevens. "The far-reaching benefits of telework affect not only employees and employers, but also our whole nation, because clearly it involves national security and the sustainability of our environment, particularly with respect to global climate change."
  Several witnesses lauded Senator Stevens' bill as an appropriate step forward in enhancing the federal telework program. "S. 1000 is a common-sense proposal to encourage telework expansion in the federal government and will help to overcome many of the barriers to telework," said Stephen O'Keeffe in his written statement. O'Keeffe is the Chief Executive Officer of the Telework Exchange, a public-private partnership that provides educational and communication services to federal teleworkers, telework managers, and IT professionals.
  In addition to helping reduce Americans' oil consumption, Senator Stevens noted several more advantages that a robust telework program would provide the federal government, as advanced by the Telework Enhancement Act. The bill would encourage federal employees to drive less and thereby reduce traffic congestion, help consumers save on fuel expenses, and limit greenhouse gas emissions. The measure would also help improve the cost-efficiency of the federal government; supplement the federal government's efforts to develop continuity of operations (COOP) plans; provide incentives to attract and retain highly-skilled federal personnel; and establish a model for similar programs in the private sector. 
  Testimony given by Mr. O'Keeffe identified the toll commuting takes on both federal employees and the environment. O'Keefe stated that Telework Exchange research has found: 
   * The average federal employee spends 245 hours commuting each year, but can reduce this interval by 98 hours by teleworking two days per week; 
   * When gas prices average $3.00 per gallon, the average full-time federal employee who commutes five days per week spends $138.80 per month on gasoline. Teleworking two days per week would save the employee $55.52 per month; and 
   * If all eligible federal employees telework two days per week, U.S. emissions would be reduced by 2.7 million tons each year. 
  During the question-and-answer portion of today's hearing, Senator Stevens called for each federal agency to designate one full-time employee as a Telework Managing Officer. This individual would implement their respective agency's telework policy, serve as a liaison between employees and managers, develop accountability and productivity criteria, and keep employees informed of their telework eligibility. S. 1000 includes a provision that would require agencies to establish such a position. 
  "We need to see if we can improve this bill by somehow bringing about a mandate for periodic review of positions and a periodic review of the effectiveness of the program to encourage teleworking in the various agencies," said Senator Stevens.
  Senator Stevens also encouraged witnesses from the Office of Personnel Management and the General Services Administration to make suggestions to Congress on ways to reduce "managerial resistance to telework" and to ensure that teleworkers have the same opportunities for advancement and promotion as non-teleworkers. Telework Exchange research found that only 35 percent of federal managers believe that their agencies support telework, and that just 19 percent of those federal employees who are telework-eligible have ever participated in the program.
   Contact: Aaron Saunders, 202/224-1028; Steve Wackowski, 202/224-5122.
 
 