ON RECORD: SEN. STEVENS' STATEMENTS DURING WEEK OF APRIL 9
  On becoming the longest-serving Republican Senator in history
   "I am surrounded by friends here on both sides of the aisle, and I am still very honored to be here? I thank my colleagues again for the courtesy all have shown me. I passed a milestone only because Strom (Thurmond) made the mistake of being a Democrat for two terms (laughing). I am honored to have this recognition today." (4/12/07)
  On becoming the longest-serving Republican Senator in history 
   "I would not be here now if it wasn't for a real understanding family. My first wife was, and my current wife, Catherine, has been supportive beyond anyone's understanding. It is a long way to go home. I remember one year I flew home 35 times - one day up and one day back, almost. But I have been away from my family a great deal. I have six children and 11 grandchildren and they have understood my commitment to the Senate. I do believe that it would be impossible to be here without that type of support." (4/12/07)
  On why he has continued to serve Alaskans in the Senate for more than 38 years
   "My basic commitment has been that I will work to fulfill the promises made to Alaska when we became a state. Many of them have not been fulfilled yet. We've worked hard at that." (4/12/07) 
  On partisan politics in the U.S. Senate
   "The bipartisanship that was here when I got here is really rare now -- like my relationship with Senator (Dan) Inouye. We call each other brother. I think that is significant. That was a common thing when we first came to the Senate, but there is now a great deal of partisanship. One time I told a group of people visiting me that the aisle between the Republicans and Democrats had turned into a canyon. It's very hard to reach across the aisle now. But we are trying our best to restore the spirit of bipartisanship in the Senate. I think it is vital for the country that we be able to work together as friends." (4/12/07)
  On the importance of bipartisanship in fighting terrorism 
   "I think we're in for a long period of strain with this extreme militant Muslim movement. I think that it will be only if we can come back together as a country and act in a bipartisan way that we will be able to stand up to this menace." (4/12/07)
  On appropriately funding the National Guard and Reserves
   "I think some of the policies that we are looking at now have to be reviewed from the point of view of funding, because we need to be assured that those people who are citizen soldiers in the Guard and Reserve still have the ability to maintain their civilian jobs. They are not a regular military and yet, increasingly, they seem to be treated as such." (4/11/07)
  On the importance of improved E-911 services for rural America
   "Upgrades to our nation's 911 network are critical, but we will fail if rural America is left behind. As new wireless and IP-based services are rolled out in Alaska, 911 capability must be included." (4/10/07)
   Contact: Aaron Saunders, 202/224-1028; Steve Wackowski, 202/224-5122. 
 
 