SEN. STEVENS PUSHES FOR DEPLOYMENT OF BROADBAND IN ALASKA
  Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee Vice Chairman Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) today called for increased deployment of broadband service to rural America during the Committee's oversight hearing of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). Senator Stevens also urged FCC Chairman Kevin Martin to look into calling card practices that discriminate against Alaska. 
   Following is an excerpt of Senator Stevens' opening statement:
   "Deployment of broadband is an important priority. The Commission has indicated that steps to provide a more accurate picture of the marketplace will be taken, and it is my hope that these actions will be taken soon. Universal service is the most important element for the communications infrastructure our country needs in rural areas. I was glad to see that the joint board has outlined proposals for comprehensive reform. While Alaska is unique, it is not alone in needing universal service programs to deliver the benefits of broadband, telemedicine and distance learning. Universal service has a central role to play in the continued development of this country's resources in rural America and any reform efforts should reflect this important role."
   During the question-and-answer portion of the hearing, Senator Stevens asked the FCC to look into calling card practices. At least one major carrier may discontinue service or charge a different rate for its calling cards in Alaska.
   Sen. Stevens: We understand that we have a threat about discontinuing some of the national calling cards in our state. Now, I thought we worked it out so that we have a concept that the same rates would apply everywhere. Are you going to permit calling cards to be available only in 49 states?
   Chairman Martin: No, and I think you're absolutely right. Rate integration requirements in the law say that they have to be providing that to all 50 states.
   Sen. Stevens: That's what really started the whole thing back when Sen. Inouye and I co-sponsored that resolution about Universal Service, making certain we had ubiquitous service all over the country available to everyone, no matter where they were in terms of communication. Now, calling cards are a part of that. I hope you will stick to that and tell the companies if they issue those calling cards, they must issue them in all 50 states. And I would hope you would take action against anyone who doesn't.
   Chairman Martin: Yes sir. We'll follow up with that because they are required to do that everywhere.
   Contact: Aaron Saunders, 202/224-1028; Steve Wackowski, 202/224-5122.
 
 