SENATE APPROVES ENERGY BILL WITH SEN. STEVENS PROVISION TO INCREASE FUEL ECONOMY STANDARDS
  The U.S. Senate today passed H.R 6, energy legislation that featured a key amendment authored by Senator Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) to mandate an increase in fuel economy (CAFE) standards for cars and light trucks to 35 miles per gallon by 2020. The bipartisan compromise was struck after months of negotiation. It is the first increase in CAFE standards since 1979.
   Senator Stevens was the first member of Congress this year to sponsor legislation (S.183) increasing fuel economy for cars and light trucks and lead the Senate to pass a bipartisan agreement earlier this year as part of H.R. 6. The provision has become the centerpiece of energy legislation debated in both the House of Representatives and the Senate. 
   "I've sought an increase in fuel economy standards because the only way our nation will achieve energy independence is through a combination of initiatives," said Senator Stevens. "Increasing efficiency standards is one important avenue in limiting our nation's dependence on foreign oil and significantly reducing greenhouse gas emissions."
   The Stevens-brokered provision in the Renewable Fuels, Consumer Protection, and Energy Efficiency Act would specifically require the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA), beginning in 2011, to annually increase the nationwide average fleet fuel economy standard for cars and light trucks to achieve a standard of 35 miles per gallon by 2020. For the years 2021-2030, car and light truck fuel economy standards will increase at the maximum feasible rate. In addition, H.R. 6 would require NHTSA to establish a program for fuel efficiency standards for medium and heavy duty trucks and establish a separate fuel economy standard for work trucks to increase their fuel efficiency at the maximum feasible rate.
   Despite his support of the fuel economy provisions and his vote for the overall bill, Senator Stevens expressed concern that Congress had once again failed to address America's need for increased domestic energy production.
   "Increasing fuel economy standards and encouraging the development of renewable energies are significant steps forward in curbing rising energy costs," said Senator Stevens. "But this bill is hardly a comprehensive approach. If Congress really wants to get serious about reducing our dependence on foreign oil, we must explore ways to develop our own energy resources. Alaska holds tremendous potential if only we could tap our oil and gas supplies. I will continue to fight on behalf of our State and nation to ensure Alaska plays a key role in establishing America's energy independence."
   Other provisions in the energy bill championed by Senator Stevens and Senator Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska) include:
   * Renewable Energy Construction Grants: This provision provides federal grants of up to 50 percent construction costs for a wide variety of renewable energy projects including: wind, geothermal, ocean and tidal, biomass, solar, landfill gas and small hydroelectric projects in Alaska. Currently, hundreds of millions of dollars are appropriated each year to renewable energy research and development, but only a small portion of these funds are actually allocated to communities for construction projects.
   * Alaska Gas Pipeline Federal Coordinator: This provision exempts the Federal Coordinator from executive branch hiring procedures allowing the office to be more adequately staffed to handle permitting and design issues. The amendment also allows the Federal Coordinator to establish reasonable charges, commissions, and filing and service fees to pay for the personnel needed to permit, review pipeline plans and oversee construction of a gas pipeline.
   Contact: Aaron Saunders, 202/224-1028; Steve Wackowski, 202/224-5122.
 
 