COMMERCE COMMITTEE APPROVES LEGISLATION IMPORTANT TO ALASKA
  The Senate Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation on Tuesday, Feb. 13, approved several pieces of legislation championed by Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska), Vice Chairman of the Committee. The bills cover a variety of issues including aviation, oceans, and communications. Each of these measures would have a direct impact on Alaska and now await consideration by the full Senate. 
   First, the Committee unanimously approved the Aviation Security Improvement Act (S. 509), legislation which would improve aviation security by enhancing passenger and cargo screening processes. During consideration of the bill, the Commerce Committee adopted a key provision sponsored by Senator Stevens. His provision would provide the nation's airports and the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) with long-term funding designed to significantly improve and expedite the installation of baggage screening and explosive detection systems. This would allow for more efficient screening and processing at airports across the country, including eligible Alaska airports.  
   "This bill represents a practical and commonsense solution to help improve our aviation security," said Senator Stevens. "Congress, the TSA, and airports have struggled to find a workable funding solution for the installation of efficient passenger baggage screening systems at airports. The provision I sponsored provides a simple resolution to this complex issue - it is a practical, realistic alternative to other proposals, many of which are still on the drawing board. This provision is particularly important to Alaska because we rely so heavily on air transportation." 
   S. 509 would require the screening of all cargo on passenger airplanes within three years. The cargo screening program strikes a balance between ensuring all cargo on passenger aircraft is secure and the steady movement of commerce. This bill would also ensure a system is in place to handle passenger redress issues and would require the TSA to move rapidly to develop a strategic plan to test and implement an advanced passenger prescreening system. 
   Next, the Committee adopted the Ocean and Coastal Exploration and NOAA Act (S. 39), a bill that would establish a coordinated national ocean exploration program within the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA). This measure would require NOAA to conduct interdisciplinary ocean voyages to survey little-known areas of the marine environment. S. 39 also implements the NOAA Undersea Research Program Act of 2007, which requires the establishment of an undersea research program to be conducted through a national headquarters, a network of regional undersea research centers, and a national technology institute. 
   "We know more about the surface of the moon than we know about the bottom of our oceans," said Senator Stevens. "This legislation would increase our knowledge of the vast biological and mineral wealth the oceans have to offer. Alaska, in particular, has significant amounts of unmapped oceans and coastline that could be explored thanks to this legislation." 
   The Committee also approved two communications bills: 
   * The Interoperable Emergency Communications Act (S.385), legislation to provide the National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) with more guidance as it awards $1 billion in interoperable emergency communications grants to police, firemen, and emergency medical personnel, including those in Alaska. This bill would allow up to $100 million of the expedited $1 billion to be used to establish technology reserves that would assist emergency response agencies in pre-positioning communications equipment in state or regional facilities. These reserves can be activated quickly in the event of a major emergency or natural disaster. The bill requires a portion of this new $100 million Federal Technology Reserve to be used in Alaska to support federal emergency responders. 
   "The strategic technology reserve provisions in this bill will assist emergency response agencies in pre-positioning communications equipment around the country, including in Alaska, so that these reserves can quickly be activated in the event of a major emergency or natural disaster," said Senator Stevens. "I was also encouraged to see that the Committee accepted my amendment to require that the likelihood of natural catastrophes, such as earthquakes, volcanic eruptions and tsunamis, be specifically considered when the grants are awarded." 
   * The 911 Modernization Act (S. 93), a bill to upgrade the 911 system used to reach operators in an emergency. S. 93 expedites funding for new 911 technological upgrades using money previously allocated by Congress. The budget reconciliation bill of 2005 made $43.5 million available from the auction of TV spectrum; S. 93 would make those funds available to public safety groups immediately instead of after the DTV auction. The funds would be replaced after the auction is held, which is expected to be later this year. Under the legislation, funding priority is given to areas with no 911 service. Because these areas tend to be rural, Alaska could receive part of the funding.
 
 