SEN. STEVENS' HIGH SCHOOL INTERNSHIP PROGRAM UNDERWAY
  Recent high school graduates from across the state of Alaska have arrived in Washington, DC to participate in the first session of Sen. Ted Stevens' (R-Alaska) summer internship program. 
  For nearly four decades, Senator Stevens has provided graduating high school seniors from Alaska with an opportunity to work in the heart of our nation's capital. The students listed below began their internships on June 2nd and will finish on June 30th: 
   Geoffrey Bacon (Fairbanks), son of Glenn and Adele Bacon, graduated with honors from West Valley High School. Geoffrey was a member of West Valley's Academic Decathlon team, which placed second in their division during national competition. In his free time, he enjoys skiing, playing golf, and cooking. Geoffrey plans to major in Industrial Labor Relations at Cornell University and anticipates attending law school.
  Maria Davydenko (Anchorage), daughter of Olga and Jim Turley, graduated as Valedictorian of her class at Polaris High School. Maria played basketball and volleyball, studied the viola and piano, and wrote for both her school newspaper and the Anchorage Daily News. In her free time, Maria enjoys hiking and the outdoors. She will attend the University of Pennsylvania this fall and is interested in studying international affairs.
  RuthAnn Dohner (Fairbanks), daughter of David and Kathy Dohner, graduated from West Valley High School with honors. She participated in her school's choir, National Honor Society, and Key Club. She was also active in Girl Scouts and received the Gold Award. In her spare time, Ruthann enjoys reading, music, and socializing with friends. Ruthann will attend Augsburg College in Minneapolis, Minnesota to major in biology or dietetics. 
  Kyle Emery (Bethel), son of Emily and Craig Emery, graduated Valedictorian from Bethel Regional High School. Kyle was a part of the varsity cross country running team as well as first chair trumpet in the high school band. He earned his pilot's license during his senior year. After graduation, Kyle ran his first marathon on Prince of Wales Island, placing seventh. He will be attending the University of Alaska Anchorage this fall.
  Heather Fison (Anchorage), daughter of David James and Heidi Fison, graduated Cum Laude from A.J. Dimond High School. Heather was a member of the riflery team all four years of high school. She was also involved in many drama productions and clubs including German Club, Key Club, and Christian Club. She plans to double major in secondary education and Biblical studies at Evangel University in Springfield, Missouri.
  Landon Grover (Palmer), son of Sterling Grover and Michelle Warner, graduated from Palmer High School. He was a member of the football team, participated in the Alaska High School Rodeo, and was president of his school's National Honor Society chapter and the student government. Landon enjoys mountain climbing, fishing, camping, and four-wheeling during his spare time. This fall he will attend the Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, Colorado.
  Mariah Kincaid (Palmer), daughter of Ken and Beth Kincaid, graduated with a Merit Diploma from Palmer High School. Mariah played varsity volleyball and was actively involved in National Honor Society and community volunteering. She also served as Vice President of Executive Board Student Government. Mariah will attend Colorado State University as an Honors student and Mathematics major with plans to continue her studies in medical school. 
  Emily Mathews (Fairbanks), daughter of Vincent and Sarah Mathews, graduated with honors from West Valley High School. Emily was an active member of student government, and studied abroad in Italy last year. In her free time Emily enjoys traveling, the outdoors, and watching movies. She plans to attend Trinity College in Dublin, Ireland, and major in Human Genetics.
  Patrick Moore (Soldotna), son of Robert and Sara Moore, is the Valedictorian of Soldotna High School's Class of 2007. Patrick started at left guard for Soldotna's 2006 3A State Championship team. He also enjoys playing the trumpet and has been awarded the all-state title for four consecutive years. In the summer, he enjoys going fishing with his dad. Patrick will attend Gonzaga University on a Trustee Scholarship in the fall.
  Catherine Simpson (Big Lake), daughter of Steven and Jody Simpson, graduated from Houston High School. Catherine was Vice President of the senior class, a member of Business Professionals of America, and also participated in choir. In her free time she enjoys reading, photography, and music. Catherine will enroll at the University of Alaska Anchorage this fall. 
  Peter Walsworth (Homer), son of Charlie and Naomi Walsworth, graduated from Homer High School. While in high school, Peter enjoyed playing soccer and running cross country. He was a member of National Honor Society and the President of his school's student government. Some of Peter's hobbies include singing in the choir and playing the trumpet. This fall, Peter hopes to major in music as a member of the Barrett Honors College at Arizona State University.
  Kaleb Westfall (Big Lake), son of Keith and LaDonna Westfall, graduated from Houston High School. Kaleb competed in varsity hockey, track, soccer, and cross country. He was a member of Business Professionals of America and Executive Board Student Government. Kaleb enjoys riding snowmachines, hunting and fishing, hiking, and spending time with friends and family. He plans to play Junior A hockey before pursuing a degree in business.
   Contact: Aaron Saunders, 202/224-1028; Steve Wackowski, 202/224-5122.
 
 