SEN. STEVENS CALLS FOR UNIVERSAL SERVICE REFORM
  Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) called for the reform of the Universal Service Fund (USF) during a Commerce Committee hearing held yesterday to assess recent recommendations made by the Federal-State Joint Board on Universal Service. The hearing primarily focused on the Joint Board's proposed cap for wireless universal service support, which would be implemented for at least 18 months and thereby delay broader USF reforms sought by Senator Stevens and other members of Congress.  
  "The importance of a unified and national communications infrastructure remains paramount and universal service is needed to ensure the availability of communications services throughout the country," said Senator Stevens. "To put off comprehensive universal service reform risks a communications divide in this country. This would be a shameful outcome which would hurt jobs and small businesses throughout rural America, including my home state of Alaska."
  If the Federal Communications Commission implemented the Joint Board's recommendation for universal service, it would be more difficult to expand wireless service in Alaska. With the proposed cap in place, Alaska's total USF funding for new wireless services could not exceed the current level, even if carriers tried to expand their service into new areas in the State. Without the cap, Alaska would continue to receive increased funding as new services expand into underserved or unserved areas.
  In January 2007, Senator Stevens introduced S. 101, the Universal Service for Americans (USA) Act, which would expand the list of communications providers that contribute to the Universal Service Fund. Under current law, long distance companies pay the bulk of the costs incurred by the Fund. S. 101 also includes provisions to ensure the long-term integrity of the universal service program through improved auditing requirements.
  "Members of this Committee raised a number of important questions at the hearing, including whether instituting an interim cap is the best choice. I look forward to working with Chairman Inouye, the Committee Members, and our House colleagues to address universal service reform in a comprehensive manner," said Senator Stevens.
   Contact: Aaron Saunders, 202/224-1028; Steve Wackowski, 202/224-5122.  
 
 