ON RECORD: SEN. STEVENS' STATEMENTS DURING WEEK OF JULY 9
  On possible amendments to the Defense Authorization bill that would require a troop withdrawal from Iraq 
   "In my opinion this is not Vietnam. If we left this country prematurely it would be absolute anarchy and Al-Qaeda would take over one of the largest oil-producing countries in the world. If that's what we want, then vote for a withdrawal now, before the Iraqis establish a government that can maintain control after we leave." (7/10/07)
  On whether he will call for an immediate troop withdrawal
   "I'm not considering any amendments. I'm waiting for (General David) Petraeus, the September report. I don't see any reason to change (policies) right now. I think we ought to get the results of what Petraeus put into effect and get his report?I believe we set into motion a process with Petraeus and we ought to try and see if it is going to work." (7/10/07)
  On climate change in Alaska
   "There is little doubt that Alaskans are feeling the effects of climate change more than anyone else in our nation. Regardless of whether these changes are caused solely by human activity, we must take steps to protect people in the Arctic." (7/11/07)
  On his amendment to raise the retirement age of commercial pilots in the U.S. 
   "It raises the retirement age from 60 to 65, and directs the Secretary of Transportation to adopt the international civil aviation standard. Currently in international aviation you can fly until age 65, but we are still at age 60. This allows commercial air carrier pilots and command to fly up to their 65th birthday if the co-pilot is 60 years old or younger. That is the compromise. I point out that in my state, which totally depends upon aviation, about 50 percent of our pilots are over age 55 now. We just do not have the ability to replace those pilots. Moving the pilot in command (limit) up to 65 as long as there is a there is a co-pilot that is 60 years or younger will solve our problem temporarily." (7/12/07)
   Contact: Aaron Saunders, 202/224-1028; Steve Wackowski, 202/224-5122. 
 
 