SEN. STEVENS' HIGH SCHOOL INTERNSHIP PROGRAM UNDERWAY
  Recent high school graduates from Anchorage, Barrow, Eagle River, Fairbanks, Ketchikan, and Valdez have arrived in Washington, DC to participate in the first session of Sen. Ted Stevens' (R-Alaska) internship program. 
   For more than three decades, Senator Stevens has provided graduating high school seniors from Alaska the opportunity to work in the heart of our nation's capital. The students listed below began their internships on June 3rd and will finish on July 1st:  
   Jacob Alguire (Ketchikan), son of Jane Blasingame and John Alguire, is a graduate of Ketchikan High School. Jacob was a member of a local paintball club and played soccer in Ketchikan's Youth Soccer League. In his free time, he enjoys making short films. Jacob has enlisted in the Marine Corps and will attend boot camp this fall. 
   Matthew Chicklo (Anchorage), son of Dorothy and Matthew Chicklo, graduated with honors from South Anchorage High School. Matthew played varsity baseball and was a member of the cotillion club. In his free time, he enjoys playing the drums and reading. Matthew plans to major in political science at the University of San Diego and anticipates attending law school. 
   Michael Chicklo (Anchorage), son of Dorothy and Matthew Chicklo, graduated from South Anchorage High School. Michael played varsity baseball and was a member of the cotillion club. He intends to major in political science at the University of San Diego and plans to attend law school. In the future, Michael would like to establish his own law firm and retire in Alaska. 
   Angene Johnson (Fairbanks), daughter of Margaret Brophy and Dan Johnson, graduated from Lathrop High School. Angene was the president of her school's chapter of the National Honor Society and played the string bass in the orchestra. She was also a member of her school's cross country, ski, and track teams. Angene is interested in international affairs and will attend The George Washington University in Washington, DC this fall. 
   Joe Kazacos (Anchorage), son of Jeannine and Stacey Kazacos, graduated from South Anchorage High School. He was a member of the track and field team, the National Honor Society, and the International Club. Joe is fluent in French and enjoys snowboarding. This fall, he will attend Hamilton College in New York. 
   Haines Landry (Anchorage), son of Jeff Landry and Janet Hall, graduated from West High School. He was a varsity member of his school's tennis and track teams and a member of the National Honor Society. Haines is fluent in Spanish and enjoys skiing and playing the piano. This fall, he will attend Colorado College. 
   Heather Long (Barrow), daughter of Beverly and Donald Long, graduated from Kitta Learning Community. Heather is a dental assistant at Barrow's hospital and is fluent in Inupiat. She intends to pursue advanced education in the field of healthcare. 
   Robert James Palisoc (Eagle River), son of Robert and Sabina Palisoc, graduated from Eagle River High School. He was a member of the debate and forensics team, selected for the 2006 edition of "Who's Who Among America's Leaders," and accepted into the National Society of High School Scholars. He plans to attend University of Alaska Anchorage and University of Hawaii at Manoa. 
   Brittany Snapp (Anchorage), daughter of Wade and Teressa Snapp, graduated with honors from Anchorage Christian School. She was an active member of student government and is a skilled pianist and guitar player. Snapp plans to major in psychology at Oklahoma University. 
   Joseph Tapangco (Valdez), son of Saturnino Tapangco and Karen Feero, graduated from Valdez High School. Joseph was a member of his school's cross country and track teams and the National Honor Society. He also served as student body president and the school's mascot. This fall, Joseph will attend Collins College in Tempe, Arizona.
 
 