SEN. STEVENS ENCOURAGES EXPANDED USE OF UNMANNED AIRCRAFT SYSTEMS IN ALASKA
  Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska), Chairman of the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, today heard testimony from witnesses at a hearing on Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS) in Alaska. The purpose of the hearing was to investigate how unmanned aircraft in Alaska can enhance important missions conducted by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), and the United States Coast Guard.  
   Senator Stevens told witnesses and Commerce Committee members about the critical role UAS can play in Alaska and the rest of the nation. 
   "Unmanned Aircraft Systems can help the missions of NOAA and the Coast Guard, two very important agencies whose missions are to protect and save lives and property," said Stevens. "From climate research to search and rescue, there are boundless opportunities for unmanned aircraft to help these agencies better accomplish their missions." 
   Witnesses explained that using these systems can reduce costs and enhance the capabilities of a wide variety of missions, including climatologic and atmospheric change research, improved weather forecasting, volcano monitoring, firefighting, disaster response/recovery, maritime boundary enforcement, and wildlife census and protection. 
   Mr. John W. Madden, Deputy Director for Homeland Security for the State of Alaska, appeared before the Committee at the invitation of Senator Stevens. Mr. Madden told the Committee about possible science, safety, and security missions for UAS in Alaska. He also discussed how operations in Alaska can become a model for the rest of the nation. 
   "My foremost duty is to provide for the safety and security of the people of Alaska. This UAS initiative will significantly contribute to that end," said Madden. "Just as importantly, I believe that a civilian testbed in Alaska also serves the best interests of other states and the nation as a whole. Only in Alaska can we test the full range of potential missions of UAS without immediately confronting the complex airspace found in most of the rest of the country. Only in Alaska can UAS be used to maximum efficiency through one flight conducting many missions," said Madden. 
   For a complete copy of Mr. Madden's testimony, please visit the Senate Commerce Committee's website at commerce.senate.gov.
 
 