SEN. STEVENS RECEIVES BOY SCOUT'S PATRIOT 'GOOD SCOUT' AWARD
  Today Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) was honored with the Boy Scouts of America's Patriot "Good Scout" Award at a special ceremony hosted by the National Capital Area Council. Stevens is the 18th recipient of the award, which honors an outstanding American in recognition of his or her noteworthy accomplishments, stalwart example of leadership, and for his or her long service to youth and America. 
   "The Boy Scouts of America is a fine organization that has been reaching out to the youth of this country for decades," Stevens said. "I was in the Boy Scouts for about four years until my troop disbanded. It is really one of the best activities youths can get involved in and nearly every scout I have known has been a class act due to the discipline the Scouts have instilled in them. The Scouts put young people on an honorable path, a path that leads to success later in life."
   The luncheon, hosted by the National Capital Area Council, raised funds for and awareness of the Boy Scouts of America program in the Washington DC area. The Council is the largest youth-serving agency in the Greater D.C. area, serving more than 85,000 young people in Washington D.C. and surrounding counties in Maryland and Virginia. The Boy Scouts program remains popular in Alaska as well, with councils in Anchorage, Fairbanks, and Juneau. Stevens sends each Eagle Scout in Alaska an American flag as recognition for their achievement.
   "The Alaskan councils serve an invaluable role in our community, promoting citizenship, character, and personal fitness among the State's young people. These are values I have worked to promote during my years in the Senate and will continue to work for in the future," said Stevens.
   Past recipients of the Patriot Award include Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-Tennessee) in 2003, Senator Dan Inouye (D-Hawaii) in 2000, and former Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich (R-Georgia) in 1996.
   Contact: Courtney Schikora, 202/224-1028.
 
 