SENS. STEVENS, MURKOWSKI PUSH FOR FUNDING TO OFFSET HIGH ENERGY COSTS
  Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) and Sen. Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska) are urging Congress to provide $5.1 billion in funds to the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program, which is designed to help low-income families and senior citizens pay home energy costs. 
   Along with 48 of their Senate colleagues, Stevens and Murkowski signed a letter to the Senate Budget Committee which also requested advance funding for LIHEAP for Fiscal Year 2009. This advance would enable states to plan more efficiently and improve program management, while ensuring that timely assistance is provided to low-income families who cannot afford to wait. 
  "As energy costs continue to rise, we must ensure that Alaskans have assistance to pay their heating bills," said Senator Stevens. "Families with high energy expenses are forced to make difficult financial choices far too often. Many Alaskans go without necessities - such as medical care and prescriptions - in order to pay their energy bills. By adequately funding LIHEAP, the federal government and the State of Alaska can work together to curb this alarming trend." 
  "I recognize that the high cost of fuel is causing hardship across the state," Senator Murkowski said. "As the price of heating fuel becomes more expensive, some people may resort to unsafe methods to heat their homes by using improperly vented portable heaters or electric heaters that can overload electrical circuits. These methods of heating are not only fire hazards, but they create the risk of carbon monoxide poisoning."
  As the prices of natural gas, heating oil, propane, and electricity continue to rise, home energy costs are increasingly unaffordable for millions of Americans, especially those living in rural areas. LIHEAP provides a vital safety net for low-income households, disabled individuals, and senior citizens in Alaska and throughout the nation. The program also helps low-income homeowners weatherize their homes to save energy and lower their energy expenses. 
  In Alaska, LIHEAP is administered through the State Department of Health and Social Services. Additional information can be found by calling 1-888-804-6330 or visiting www.hss.state.ak.us/dpa/programs/hap/.
   Contact: Aaron Saunders, 202/224-1028; Steve Wackowski, 202/224-5122. 
 
 