SENATE PASSES 9/11 COMMISSION BILL
  Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) on Tuesday, March 13, voted for S. 4, legislation that addresses recommendations from the 9/11 Commission. The measure, which passed the Senate 60-38, now proceeds to a House-Senate conference where a committee will resolve differences between the House and Senate-passed versions of the legislation.  
  "Since September 11th, we have made many improvements to our nation's transportation security infrastructure and worked to ensure our public safety officials have essential communications interoperability. With the passage of this bill, we are taking another step forward," said Senators Stevens. "But our work on this legislation is not done. I am aware of the criticism of S.4, and will work with my colleagues to improve the bill in conference."
  The following provisions sponsored by Senator Stevens were included in the Senate version of S. 4 passed today:
  The Surface Transportation and Rail Security (STARS) Act of 2007, S. 184 - Authorizes new surface transportation and rail security assessments, grant programs, research and development initiatives, and security measures for the nation's major surface transportation modes. The provision proposes new programs to address known risks and authorizes ongoing efforts underway at the Transportation Security Administration (TSA). It also provides a statutory framework for the TSA's surface transportation and rail security efforts for the first time by setting specific goals, tasks, and timelines for security improvements in these critical areas. 
  The Aviation Security Improvement Act, S. 509 - Addresses the aviation security recommendations made by the 9/11 Commission in the areas of cargo and baggage screening, explosive detection at airport checkpoints, passenger pre-screening, and general aviation security. The measure also increases the size of the national explosives detection and canine teams and requires the TSA to report on progress developing a passenger pre-screening program.
  The Interoperable Emergency Communications Act, S. 385 - Gives the National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) greater direction regarding how to use the $1 billion interoperability fund created by the Commerce Committee in the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005.
  The 911 Modernization Act of 2007, S. 93 - Upgrades the 911 system used to reach operators in an emergency. This provision expedites the funding for new 911 technological upgrades using money that Congress has already allocated and would also fund the grant program established under the "Ensuring Needed Help Arrives Near Callers Employing 911 (ENHANCE) Act", which was signed into law in 2004. The reconciliation bill of 2005 made $43.5 million available to public safety groups from the auction of TV spectrum. This provision will make those funds available immediately and assures they will be replaced after the auction is held, which is expected to be later this year.
   Contact: Aaron Saunders, 202/224-1028; Steve Wackowski, 202/224-5122. 
 
 