SENS. STEVENS, HOLLINGS, INOUYE ANNOUNCE: NOAA SCEINTISTS MAKE IMPORTANT DISCOVERIES DURING EXPEDITION TO PACIFIC OCEAN'S RING OF FIRE
  Today, Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska), along with Sens. Fritz Hollings (D-South Carolina), and Daniel Inouye (D-Hawaii), announced a remarkable set of discoveries by National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) during an expedition to the submerged volcanoes of the Mariana arc in the Pacific Ocean. NOAA scientists captured the first-ever live video recordings of a sub-sea volcanic eruption, bubbles of liquid carbon dioxide emerging from the seafloor, and the rare convergence of sunlight-based and chemical-based ecosystems. 
   The "Submarine Ring of Fire - 2004" expedition, sponsored in part by NOAA's Office of Ocean Exploration and Pacific Marine Environmental Laboratory, and the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada, collected a number of samples and video images that will enable scientists to study how chemicals released from the sea floor impact the upper ocean. The voyage of discovery brought scientists face to face with parts of the ocean floor that are geologically very active, but largely unexplored. 
   "Our oceans make up seven-tenths of our planet, yet we know less about the oceans than we do about the surface of the moon," said Senator Hollings, Ranking Member of the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee, which has jurisdiction over NOAA. "Voyages like the Submarine Ring of Fire expedition show us the value of ocean exploration to increasing our understanding of the oceans."
   This discovery follows the introduction of S. 2280, the National Ocean Exploration Program Act, sponsored by Senator Stevens and co-sponsored Senators Hollings and Inouye. The bill allows for better coordination of ocean exploration and research between NOAA, the National Science Foundation, and other federal agencies. The Program promotes exploration of remote ocean areas, in particular deep ocean regions in order to bring significant scientific and medical breakthroughs.
   "Ocean research directly leads to scientific and medical breakthroughs and an opportunity to engage the public in ocean science and conservation," stated Senator Stevens, President Pro Tempore and Chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee. "For states like Alaska and Hawaii, whose economies and quality of life depend heavily on the oceans, the time has come to invest more energy and resources into ocean exploration and research."
   "If we are going to be good stewards of marine resources, the nation needs a robust scientific research program to develop science-based management approaches to conservation," said Senator Daniel Inouye, a senior member of the Senate Appropriations and Commerce, Science and Transportation Committees. 
   In addition to the bill introduced by Senators Stevens, Hollings and Inouye, which promotes ocean exploration, the U.S. Commission on Ocean Policy recently released its preliminary report for public comment. In this report the Commission calls for an expanded ocean exploration program and a doubling of the federal ocean research budget over the next five years.
   Contact: Courtney Schikora, 202/224-1028.
 
 