PRESIDENT SIGNS SEN. STEVENS BILL TO ALLOW COMMERCIAL PILOTS TO FLY UNTIL AGE 65
  President George W. Bush late yesterday signed into law the Fair Treatment for Experienced Pilots Act (H.R. 4343). The U.S. Senate passed this legislation, which will have a dramatic impact on Alaska's aviation industry, unanimously Wednesday night. Senator Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) has led the efforts for this reform for more than a decade.
   H.R. 4343 will allow commercial airline pilots to fly until age 65. Since 1960, Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) regulations have specified that commercial airline pilots must retire upon reaching 60 years of age. 
   Senator Stevens made a statement on the floor of the Senate commending the President's action. His statement, as delivered, follows:
   "I come to the floor today to thank Congress for finally passing the mandatory retirement age for commercial airline pilots from age 60 to 65. This language was included as part of the 'Fair Treatment for Experienced Pilots Act,' and allows our most experienced commercial pilots to continue to provide safe air transportation for the nation. This bill was approved by the House unanimously.
   "Since 1960, the FAA 'Age 60 Rule' has restricted pilots age 60 and older from serving on any commercial flight operations. Under the rule, it's estimated that our aviation system has lost 50 pilots every week.
   "Many in the aviation community, the FAA, and now Congress, have reacted to the realization that the Age 60 rule has become outdated and discriminatory against one of Alaska's greatest resources, and that's our experienced and seasoned pilots.
   "Alaska, as a state, is more dependent on aviation than any other state. The lack of highway infrastructure creates a situation where aviation serves as the traditional road system. More than 70 percent of our communities can only be reached by air year-round, making aircraft essential for personal, commercial, cargo, and mail transportation to almost every part of our state. Having experienced pilots to deliver goods and services to our communities is essential for Alaskans.
   "Many of our pilots contacted me and told me how the age 60 rule was impacting them. In fact, on Tuesday, I met with Gary Miller, a Vietnam veteran and currently a FedEx pilot based in Anchorage. If Congress had not have acted on this outdated regulation, he would have been forced to retire in February.
   "In addition, there are pilots like Captain Bill Green, one of Alaska's best Hercules pilots. The Hercules aircraft are used for transporting large cargo shipments in our state. Captain Green turns 60 next April and would have been forced into retirement, despite the need for qualified, experienced pilots in Alaska.
   "And then there's Mike Redmond, who has experience flying every type of aircraft used in Alaska. In two years he will be 60 years old and under the 'Age 60 rule' Alaskans would have lost his wealth of knowledge and experience.
   "I have supported changing this rule now for more than a decade, and I applaud the Congress' actions in finally taking hold and raising this age to 65.
   "These pilots are our most experienced aviators and a valuable resource for the commercial aviation industry. Our action today will allow them to continue serving our nation.
   "It is rare that Congress passes legislation that has such an immediate personal impact on our citizens and I am proud to say the President signed this bill immediately when he received it last night. I believe, this is a proud moment for me, for the Congress, and for the nation."
   Contact: Aaron Saunders, 202/224-1028; Steve Wackowski, 202/224-5122.
 
 