SENS. STEVENS, INOUYE WELCOME BUSH ADMINISTRATION PLAN FOR TSUNAMI MONITORING SYSTEM
  Today Sens. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) and Daniel Inouye (D-Hawaii), Chairman and Co-chairman of the Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee welcomed the Bush Administration's plan for a global tsunami monitoring system in the wake of the devastation caused by the tsunami in the Indian Ocean on December 26, 2004. The plan builds upon Sens. Stevens' and Inouye's efforts over the past 10 years to fund the research and establishment of a tsunami warning system in the Pacific. 
   The Bush Administration outlined a plan that included $37.5 million - $24 million for the National Oceanic Atmospheric Administration and $13.5 million for the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS). These two agencies oversee and contribute to the tsunami detection and warning process. The new plan includes the following national items: strengthening of the Pacific warning system, developing a new system in the Caribbean and Gulf of Mexico, 32 new advanced-technology Deep-ocean Assessment and Reporting of Tsunami (DART) buoys for a fully operational enhanced tsunami warning system by mid-2007.
   Senator Stevens remarked, "Greater warning information is a priority for Alaskans, especially those that lived through the Good Friday earthquake of 1964. The Bush Administration's tsunami proposal is of interest to Alaskans because our vast coastline and volcanic activity make our region particularly susceptible to potential earthquakes and tsunami events. The Administration's plan will provide enhanced detection capabilities and greater coverage of the Pacific."
   Senator Inouye commented, "Having raised this issue with Commerce Secretary-designate Gutierrez last week, I'm encouraged by the proposal to expand and modernize the tsunami warning system. I'm also pleased to see that the Administration is committing specific resources to make it happen. Hawaii has always been particularly sensitive to this geological phenomenon. The Pacific Ocean is the most prone to tsunamis, and our state has suffered great losses in the past. It is my hope that, together with the Administration, we can create a robust, reliable, well-maintained system that allows us to avert future tsunami-related catastrophes. The members of our committee represent the vast majority of the nation's coastline, and we have a strong interest in advancing these concepts early in the session."
   The Bush Administration's plan builds upon the earlier work of Senators Stevens and Inouye. In 1994, the two directed NOAA to create the first national initiative to mitigate tsunami hazards in the Pacific, the center of 85% of the world's tsunami activity, and have provided follow-on funds for its expansion ever since.
   The plan offered today is very important to Alaska, Hawaii and the Pacific Ocean states because of the significant amount of volcanic and seismic activity in the region. Of particular interest to Alaska and Hawaii, the plan includes round-the-clock warning coverage at the Pacific and Alaska Tsunami Centers, the addition of three redundant DART buoys in Alaska and the operation and maintenance of 38 new sea level monitoring/tide gauge stations.
   Contact: Melanie Alvord, 202/224-8456; Andy Davis, 202/224-4546.
 
 