SEN. STEVENS' COLLEGE INTERNSHIP PROGRAM UNDERWAY
  College students from Anchorage, Big Lake, Fairbanks, Kenai, Ketchikan, North Pole, and Unalaska have arrived in Washington, DC to participate in Sen. Ted Stevens' internship program. 
   For more than three decades, Senator Stevens has provided college students from Alaska with the opportunity to spend a summer working in the heart of our nation's capital. College interns research legislative issues, monitor committee hearings, answer telephones, perform clerical and press office duties, and deliver messages to the Senate floor. The students listed below are participating in this year's college internship program:  
   Brian Bitzer (Anchorage), son of Ronald and Karen Bitzer, graduated from Dimond High School in 2003. Brian is a senior at DePauw University, where he is pursuing a double major in political science and economics. He is a member of Phi Delta Theta fraternity and Omicron Delta Epsilon, an international economics honor society. After earning his undergraduate degree, Brian plans to attend law school. 
   Kelsey Dunn (Kenai), daughter of Dennis and Terrie Dunn, graduated from Kenai Central High School in 2005. Kelsey is a sophomore at Gonzaga University, where she is pursuing a degree in business. She volunteers for the Setons of Gonzaga, a community service organization, and at a local elementary school. Upon graduation, Kelsey intends to pursue an MBA. 
   Holly Goodman (Anchorage), daughter of Fraser and Connie Goodman, graduated from West High School in 2002. In 2006, Holly received her undergraduate degree from the University of Redlands, where she majored in English with a concentration in creative writing. Holly anticipates returning to Alaska to pursue a career in writing and editing. 
   Ryan Graves (Unalaska), son of Christine and Don Graves, graduated from Unalaska City School in 2003. Ryan is a senior at Washington State University, where he is pursuing a double major in political science and criminal justice. Each summer Ryan enjoys working for his parents on their charter fishing boat. After earning his degree, he plans to attend law school in Washington, DC. 
   Alexander Ortiz (Ketchikan), son of Rod Landis and Taylor McKenna, graduated from Ketchikan High School in 2003. Alex attends the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, where he is majoring in the university's Peace, War, and Defense Curriculum. Alex is an active member of the Dialectic and Philanthropic Debate Society. Upon graduation, he plans to return to Washington, DC to attend law school. 
   Clark Penney (Anchorage), son of Corrine and Kurt Eilo, graduated from Steller Secondary School in 2003. While in high school, Clark spent summers playing soccer in city leagues and winters playing for West High School. In 2001, he participated in the pilot program for the Urban Rural Youth Program. Clark currently attends Southern Oregon University, where he is finishing his degree in business management. After graduating this December, Clark plans to pursue an MBA. 
   Charles Raabe (North Pole), son of Michael and Juliett Raabe, graduated from North Pole High School in 2003. Charles joined the Air National Guard after graduating from high school and is currently a junior at the University of Alaska Fairbanks, where he is pursuing a degree in electrical engineering. An avid outdoorsman, Charles is also an Eagle Scout (Troop 42) and plans to pursue a career as a pilot for the Alaska Air National Guard. 
   Melissa Takaaze (Fairbanks), daughter of Gail and James Schwarber and Miles Takaaze, graduated from Lathrop High School in 2003. A senior at the University of Hawaii at Manoa, she studies political science and is a member of Pi Sigma Alpha. Melissa previously interned for the Hawaii State Legislature. After earning her degree, she plans to attend law school and become a public policy advisor. 
   Austin Viall (Eielson AFB), son of Curtis and Carol Ann Viall, graduated from Ben Eielson High School in 2003. In 2006, Austin received his undergraduate degree from the University of Idaho, where he majored in microbiology with a concentration in veterinary medicine. Austin conducted biodefense research on bubonic plague at the University of Idaho and has also interned for the Alaska SeaLife Center. This fall, Austin will begin his veterinary studies at Washington State University. 
   Kortnie Westfall (Big Lake), daughter of Keith and LaDonna Westfall, graduated from Houston High School in 2004. Kortnie is currently a junior at the University of Alaska Fairbanks, where she is pursuing a double major in journalism-new media and English. She is also a member of and the historian for Alpha Phi Omega at the campus' National Co-Ed Service Fraternity chapter.
 
 