SENATE APPROPRIATIONS COMMITTEE ADOPTS SENS. LEAHY-STEVENS AMENDMENT TO EXTEND DEADLINE ON WHTI IMPLEMENTATION
  The Senate Committee on Appropriations has adopted an amendment sponsored by Senator Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) and Senator Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) which would extend the implementation deadline for land and sea portions of the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative (WHTI). The Committee approved this amendment during today's markup of the Fiscal Year (FY) 2008 Homeland Security Appropriations bill. 
  "Senator Leahy and I have followed this issue for nearly three years because there's a real chance our states will be adversely impacted if these requirements are implemented in haste," said Senator Stevens. "Thousands of travelers must pass through Canada by road or by cruise ship each year in order to reach Alaska. Federal agencies need this extra time - they're already struggling to keep up with an extreme increase in passport applications, and the full implementation of this initiative will generate even more requests. Without careful and thoughtful planning, the WHTI's land and sea provisions could cripple the ability of Alaskans and others to travel to and from our State."  
  "Senator Stevens and I believe we should fix these problems before this plan is imposed on travelers, instead of trying to clean up the mess afterward," said Senator Leahy. 
  The WHTI requires all U.S. citizens to present a passport or other accepted secure document when entering the United States. Last year, Senator Stevens joined Senator Leahy to include language in the FY07 Homeland Security Appropriations bill allowing the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and the Department of State to delay WHTI implementation until June 1, 2009 or three months after all requirements have been met and certified, whichever came earlier. 
  However, due to concerns about whether DHS and the Department of State could implement passcard technology infrastructure and other important measures within this timeframe, Senator Stevens and Senator Leahy are now working to further ease the WHTI land and sea deadline. The Leahy-Stevens amendment accepted by the Committee today would require DHS and the State Department to institute WHTI guidelines no earlier than June 1, 2009. The Bush Administration currently plans to begin implementing land and sea portions of WHTI on January 1, 2008. 
  Senator Stevens and Senator Leahy also sent a letter to the Departments of State and Homeland Security earlier this week encouraging the agencies to use this extra time to work out problems in their border-crossing schemes before WHTI implementation commences. 
  In their letter to Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and Secretary of Homeland Security Michael Chertoff, Senator Stevens and Senator Leahy wrote: 
  "In light of this decision to delay implementation of the rule for air travelers, we hope your agencies now will take all the necessary time allowed under the law to implement the land and sea provisions properly. Air composes a fraction of the overall cross-border travel between the United States and Canada, Mexico, and the Caribbean. There is another train wreck on the horizon if your agencies continue pushing forward with full implementation of the WHTI before the necessary policies and procedures are in place to handle the lengthy delays that are sure to come . . . . We urge you to announce that your agencies will use the time allotted by Congress - until June 2009 under current law - to execute the WHTI sensibly."
  The air portion of WHTI was implemented on January 23, 2007. DHS and the State Department recently announced that they have loosened air requirements due to a severe backlog of passport requests. According to the State Department, it now takes 10 to 12 weeks for travelers to receive their passports.
   Contact: Aaron Saunders, 202/224-1028; Steve Wackowski, 202/224-5122. 
 
 