SEN. STEVENS RECOGNIZED FOR HIGHWAY SAFETY IMPROVEMENT EFFORTS
  The American Association of Motor Vehicle Administrators (AAMVA) has honored Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska), Chairman of the Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee for his commitment to improving highway safety.  
   Chairman Stevens supported language in last year's federal highway bill (SAFETEA-LU) to help state Departments of Motor Vehicles (DMVs) modernize the federally mandated commercial driver's license information system (CDLIS). The CDLIS modernization project will help state DMVs upgrade the network that prevents potentially unsafe drivers from obtaining a commercial driver's license in any state. The bill also established a task force to study and address current impediments and foreseeable challenges to the commercial driver's license program. Other noteworthy safety initiatives in the bill included: funding for safety programs that promote occupant protection and decreasing impaired driving. 
   "More than 42,000 Americans are killed and 2.9 million are seriously injured each year on our nation's highways," said Linda Lewis-Pickett, president and CEO of the AAMVA. "Thanks to Congressional leaders like Senator Stevens, states can expect an increase in funding for safety programs including: impaired driving, occupant protection, motorcycle safety, police traffic services and commercial driver's licensing - all initiatives that help prevent unnecessary tragedies on our highways." 
   "I am honored to receive this award from the AAMVA. The CDLIS provisions in SAFETEA-LU were a result of a bipartisan effort in our Commerce Committee. We are dedicated to building upon our recent successes," said Chairman Stevens in accepting the award. 
   SAFETEA-LU reauthorized the federal highway, public transportation, highway safety, and motor carrier safety programs for six years, from fiscal years 2004 through 2009. 
   Founded in 1933, AAMVA is a non-profit educational association devoted to actively and effectively enforcing highway safety and promoting uniformity among North American motor vehicle agencies. Representing chief motor vehicle and law enforcement officials, the association develops uniform programs and practices in the areas of driver licensing, vehicle titling/registration and motor carrier services, among others.
   Contact: Courtney Boone, 202/224-1028; Melanie Alvord, 202/224-8456. 
 
 