SEN. STEVENS CHAMPIONS TRAVEL PROCESS REFORMS IN 9/11 COMMISSION BILL
  Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) has successfully worked with his colleagues in the Senate to include important travel and tourism-related provisions in S. 4, legislation to implement recommendations made by the 9/11 Commission. The bill passed the Senate on March 14, Wednesday evening.  
  In addition to strengthening the United States' transportation security infrastructure and communications interoperability for first responders, S. 4 includes improvements for America's travel process which are designed to increase the number of international travelers visiting our country. 
  "Our nation has witnessed a significant decrease in tourism since 9/11, and the effects of this downturn are being felt in Alaska," said Senator Stevens. "By making much-needed reforms to our system, many of this bill's provisions will help stimulate travel to America and our State. We hope the result will be more jobs for Alaskans and billions of dollars in tax revenue for the United States." 
  One key provision sponsored by Senator Stevens would establish a Model Ports of Entry Program at 20 of America's top airports accommodating international travelers. This program would help enhance efficiency and customer service in welcoming international travelers to the United States. 
  Another provision developed by Senator Stevens authorizes the Department of Homeland Security to hire at least 200 new U.S. Customs and Border Protection officers to remedy staff shortages. 
  Finally, Senator Stevens worked with Senator George Voinovich (R-Ohio) to include an amendment in S. 4 that would extend 90-day visa-free travel privileges to the United States' allies in the War on Terror. Senator Stevens originally co-sponsored the measure when Senator Voinovich introduced it as a stand-alone bill earlier this year. This legislation is designed to augment the number of countries in the Visa Waiver Program, which could in turn increase the number of tourists and business travelers who visit the United States.
  The Discover America Partnership estimates the United States has lost 60 million travelers over the past five years. An annual increase of 10 million visitors could create 190,000 new jobs, $16.5 billion in new spending, and nearly $3 billion in new tax revenues.
   Contact: Aaron Saunders, 202/224-1028; Steve Wackowski, 202/224-5122.  
 
 