SEN. STEVENS EXPRESSES CONCERN OVER FEDERAL BUDGET FOR EDUCATION PROGRAMS IN ALASKA
  At Wednesday' s Senate Appropriations Committee hearing on funding the No Child Left Behind Act, Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) said he was "disturbed" by the Bush Administration's Fiscal Year 2008 budget proposal for education in Alaska. Sen. Ted Stevens' comments came during a question-and-answer session with U.S. Secretary of Education Margaret Spellings.  
  The President's FY08 Budget Request zeroes out funding for all Alaska-specific authorized programs. These programs include the Alaska Native Education Equity Act ($34 million), the Alaska Native/Native Hawaiian-serving Institutions of Higher Education program ($11.9 million), the Education Through Cultural and Historical Organizations Act ($3 million), and the Carol M. White Physical Education for Progress program ($73 million). FY08 is the first year the Department of Education has requested no funding for many of these programs.
  "I look at what's been done and I can't believe that such a meat ax would be placed on the education budget for Alaska and Hawaii," Senator Stevens said. "I'm very serious. It worries me greatly to represent a place that is not understood, apparently, by this Administration. You are refusing to accept the judgments made by the past administrations and Congresses. These are programs that would work and do work and have brought our children to the point where they can meet the needs of No Child Left Behind." 
  Senator Stevens expressed concern about how a lack of federal funds for these essential education programs may affect Alaska students. 
  "This budget cuts them off at midstream. We have children that are in those institutions of higher education, some of whom successfully go on to higher education in other states. But they're way out away from our universities?.And your people just whacked these programs. I can't remember being as disturbed with the Department of Education as I am today," said Senator Stevens.
  Senator Stevens also invited Secretary Spellings to come to Alaska to learn more about unique challenges facing the State's education system. Secretary Spellings said she hoped to visit the State.
   Contact: Aaron Saunders, 202/224-1028; Steve Wackowski, 202/224-5122.   
 
 