COMMITTEE APPROVES SEN. STEVENS' TELEWORK LEGISLATION
  The U.S. Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee today unanimously approved Senator Ted Stevens' (R-Alaska) and Senator Mary Landrieu's (D-La.) Telework Enhancement Act (S. 1000), legislation to expand telecommuting opportunities for federal employees. This telework program allows eligible members of the federal workforce to avoid an often onerous commute by working from home or another remote site. Senator Daniel Akaka (D-Hawaii) and Senator George Voinovich (R- Ohio) co-sponsored the measure. 
  "The far-reaching benefits of telework affect not only employees and employers, but also national security and the sustainability of our environment," said Senator Stevens. "This program's success is clearly in our best interest, and represents a significant step forward for federal telework policies." 
  "This bill has the dual benefit of saving the energy used in traveling to work and allowing American families to spend more time together," Senator Landrieu said. "Senator Stevens has taken a commonsense approach to tackling the rising cost of energy, while also confronting the challenges families face in our increasingly hectic society."
  "At a hearing of my Subcommittee in June on telework, agency leadership and management resistance were cited as the biggest road blocks to robust telework programs," said Senator Akaka. "This is leaving agencies behind in attracting and retaining needed talent in the federal workforce. The substitute amendment adopted by the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee today, which Senator Stevens and I offered, shows that we need stronger leadership in telework as a management tool at federal agencies. I want to thank Senator Stevens for his leadership on this issue, and I look forward to the swift adoption of the bill as amended by the Senate."
  "I believe telework is one of many tools that can help the federal government transform itself into a 21st Century employer of choice," Senator Voinovich said. "I would like to thank Senator Stevens for working so closely with us these last few months. I think the changes proposed in the substitute amendment will go a long way in helping federal agencies more fully integrate telework into their workforce planning."
  S. 1000, as approved today, would require all executive and legislative agencies to institute a telework policy, provide training for all participating employees and managers, and require a written agreement establishing a clear policy between the employee and agency. 
  In addition to helping reduce Americans' oil consumption, the bill would encourage federal employees to drive less and thereby reduce traffic congestion, help consumers save on fuel expenses, and limit greenhouse gas emissions. The measure would also help improve the cost-efficiency of the federal government; supplement the federal government's efforts to develop continuity of operations (COOP) plans; provide incentives to attract and retain highly-skilled federal personnel; and establish a model for similar programs in the private sector. 
  "It is important to encourage managers to allow their employees to participate in telework as much as possible," said Senator Stevens. "This is the key to making any telework program successful. Unfortunately, it has been difficult for managers to get past the cultural mentality that their employees must be in their office and at their desk in order to be productive. It is my hope that this telework bill will be the tool both managers and employees need to improve participation in their agency's program.
  "Our country faces a very serious energy crisis, and our dependence on foreign oil is alarming," said Senator Stevens. "If we want to change course and establish our energy independence, the U.S. must take a comprehensive approach. This should include domestic energy production, the development of alternative energies, and energy conservation. Telework could be a component to energy conservation efforts by simply limiting the gasoline consumed by federal employees."
  S. 1000, specifically, would also require: 
   the head of each agency to appoint an employee as the Telework Management Officer (TMO), and outlines the duties of the TMO; and 
   the Senate Rules Committee in consultation with the Majority and Minority Leader, and the Committee on House Administration, to provide telework guidelines for employees of the Senate and House.
   Contact: Aaron Saunders, 202/224-1028; Steve Wackowski, 202/224-5122. 
 
 