SEN. STEVENS REACTS TO U.S. DISTRICT COURT DECISION ON PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
  Today Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska), President Pro Tempore, reacted to a U.S. District Court decision which ruled that it is unconstitutional to require public school students to recite the Pledge of Allegiance as it contains the phrase "under God." 
   Stevens stated, "last week, our nation mourned the death of Chief Justice William Rehnquist. Earlier today, U.S. District Judge Lawrence Karlton ruled it unconstitutional for children to recite the Pledge of Allegiance in public schools because the pledge includes the words 'under God.' 
   "Today's ruling, which was based on a 2002 decision by the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, highlights the need to narrow judicial activism and restore our legal system to its constitutional roots - principles which Chief Justice Rehnquist championed and guided him during his 33 years on the Supreme Court. 
   "References to God in American public life are part of our history and traditions. When our Founding Fathers wrote the Declaration of Independence, they spoke of men 'endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights.' In 1964, the phrase 'In God We Trust' first appeared on the two-cent coin. It was added because so many Americans wrote to the Secretary of the Treasury requesting a motto for our currency which recognized the importance of God. In 1956, those in Congress - elected by the American people to represent them - passed a resolution making 'In God We Trust' one of our national mottos. And when elected officials take the oath of public office, they conclude with the phrase, 'So help me God.' 
   "These references are part of our heritage. It is up to the American people, not the courts, to decide their future. 
   "Judge John Roberts, who has been nominated to serve as our nation's 17th chief justice and is testifying before the Senate Judiciary Committee this week, shares the commitment Chief Justice Rehnquist had to the rule of law. Judge Roberts has expressed a preference for judicial restraint and warned against judicial activism, which he believes occurs when judges 'read their personal predilections into the flexible terms of the Constitution, at the expense of the policy choices of the elected representatives of the people.' 
   "Today's District Court ruling on the pledge highlights the importance of Judge Roberts' judicial philosophy, and it is my hope the Senate will move quickly to confirm him."
   Contact: Courtney Boone, 202/224-1028.
 
 