SEN. STEVENS MEETS WITH ALASKA STUDENTS PARTICIPATING IN NATIONAL HISTORY DAY COMPETITION
  Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) met with 24 students from Alaska who participated in this year's National History Day (NHD) competition. The students were in the Washington, DC area to present history projects related to this year's National History Day theme, "Taking a Stand in History: People, Ideas, Events."  
   "An understanding of our past is a vital part of any effort to secure our future. I am pleased our students in Alaska have a strong interest in history, and I thank the National History Day program for providing them with the opportunity to present their work in a national setting," said Stevens. 
   "This year's contingent of 24 students is the largest number of Alaska students to ever attend the National History Day contest," stated Darrell Lewis, Alaska State Coordinator. "Our students worked really hard and had some interesting topics, and it is great to see so many of them at the national contest!" 
   Mercedes Curran, a freshman from Dimond High School and a finalist in the senior individual documentary category, received the Jamestown Award for her project. Curran examined the life and impact of Stephen Biko, a South African civil rights activist. The Jamestown Award recognizes academic excellence and is awarded to one student from each state. 
   Rebecca Dailey, a student from Goldenview Middle School, received the Outstanding State Entry Award for her paper titled, "The White Rose Society." The documentary "Elizabeth Peratrovich: Alaskan Natives' Civil Rights Advocate," presented by Chugiak High School students Jessica Pospeck, Margaret Martens, and Michael DeTerra, received the recognition of Outstanding State Entry. 
   Each year over half a million students in grades six through 12 from 49 states, the District of Columbia, and American Samoa participate in the NHD program. In the fall, students begin the year-long program by competing in a series of history contests in their local communities and states. Students examine historic documents related to an annual theme and present their findings in one of four categories: exhibits, documentaries, performances, or papers. The top students in each category are then selected for participation in the national contest. This year, over 300 historians and other education professionals evaluated the work of over 2,000 students at the national contest, which was held at the University of Maryland at College Park from June 11th through June 15th. Over $250,000 in scholarships and cash prizes were awarded.
 
 