SEN. STEVENS REMEMBERS MRS. MARGARET INOUYE
  Today, Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) went to the floor of the Senate to pay tribute to Mrs. Margaret Inouye, wife of Sen. Daniel Inouye (D-Hawaii). Sen. Stevens told his colleagues about Mrs. Inouye's dedication to her husband, her family, and the people of Hawaii.  
   "Words cannot express the sadness Catherine and I felt when we learned Maggie Inouye had passed away," said Stevens. "Maggie was truly Dan's partner in life. Their courtship and marriage was a love story really for the ages. 
   "As so many of us did during World War II, Dan put aside his education, put it on hold to serve his country. When he met Maggie, Dan was finishing his undergraduate degree at the University of Hawaii. He knew instantly he wanted to marry her, and on their second date, they were engaged. From that point on, Maggie has been a constant source of support and friendship for Dan." 
   In his tribute, Senator Stevens told his colleagues that Mrs. Inouye was, "in her own quiet way, a devoted public servant" who came to Washington, DC to help Senator Inouye serve the people of Hawaii. 
   Stevens also shared a story from Senator Inouye's autobiography that epitomizes Mrs. Inouye's love for her husband of nearly 57 years. "It was Election Day 1962, and Dan and Maggie had gone to the polls....Dan asked Maggie, 'How do you think you'll like being a Senator's lady?' Maggie looked at Dan and said, 'Being Dan Inouye's lady is what's important. The rest is just extra.'" 
   Stevens closed by saying, "Maggie lived her life with great dignity, grace, and optimism. It was these qualities that drew Dan to her 58 years ago, and even illness could not dampen her spirit. Catherine and I extend our deepest sympathies to Dan, their son Kenny and his wife Jessica, and Maggie's five sisters. Maggie will be sorely missed by all who knew her." 
   Mrs. Inouye passed away on Monday, March 13, 2006 at Walter Reed Army Medical Center. She was 81. 
   A transcript of Senator Stevens' complete statement is attached to this release. 
   Tribute Honoring Margaret Inouye: http://stevens.senate.gov/docs/FF7D687C-D121-61A7-556A350904EF799B.pdf.
   Contact: Courtney Boone, 202/224-1028; Janel Anderson, 202/224-5122.  
 
 