SENS. STEVENS, MURKOWSKI APPLAUD SENATE APPROVAL OF MARK MYERS NOMINATION
  Sens. Ted Stevens and Lisa Murkowski today applauded the Senate for approving the Presidential nomination of Mark Myers to the position of Director of the U.S. Geological Survey.  
   "I am pleased that the Senate has confirmed Mark Myers as the next director of the U.S. Geological Survey," said Senator Stevens. "Mark has long been a respected member of Alaska's natural resource community and an expert in the area of gas hydrates. His leadership will be a tremendous asset to USGS, particularly as private and government entities work to unlock the potential of gas hydrates beneath Alaska's permafrost." 
   "Mark brings unparalleled experience to this position, and I am delighted that the Senate has moved to confirm him," said Senator Murkowski. "As the new Director, he will undoubtedly be a strong and effective advocate for Alaskan priorities. I look forward to working closely with him in the months to come." 
   Dr. Mark Myers most recently served as the State Geologist and State of Alaska Division of Oil and Gas Director. Prior to this, he served as the Senior Staff Geologist for Exploration at ARCO Alaska, Incorporated and Phillips Alaska, Incorporated. Earlier in his career, he was a Petroleum Geologist for the State of Alaska Division of Oil and Gas. Dr. Myers received his bachelor's and master's degrees from the University of Wisconsin. He later received his PhD from the University of Alaska. 
   Created by an act of Congress in 1879, the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) stands as the sole science agency for the Department of the Interior. It is sought out by thousands of partners and customers for its natural science expertise and its vast earth and biological data holdings. The USGS serves the Nation by providing reliable scientific information to describe and understand the Earth; minimize loss of life and property from natural disasters; manage water, biological, energy, and mineral resources; and enhance and protect our quality of life.
 
 