SENS. STEVENS, LANDRIEU INTRODUCE BILL TO RECOGNIZE LOCAL BROADCASTERS' FIRST RESPONSE ROLE FOLLOWING MAJOR DISASTERS
  Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) announced on Monday, April 16, he will join Sen. Mary L. Landrieu (D-La.) in introducing new legislation that would, for the first time, federally recognize the vital role of local broadcasters in responding to major disasters. The First Response Broadcasters Act of 2007 would take steps to help ensure that local television and radio stations are able to broadcast essential public information to the disaster area without interruption. The Alaska Broadcasters Association plans to endorse the legislation.  
  "Broadcasters provide an invaluable public service to Americans, especially in times of crisis," said Senator Stevens, Ranking Member of the Disaster Recovery Subcommittee of the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee. "Many people in my state know this firsthand. Alaskans, particularly those in the most remote areas of the state, have endured devastating earthquakes, tsunamis and typhoons. As we strive to improve disaster preparedness in Alaska and throughout our nation, Congress must ensure that broadcasters have the tools to effectively communicate with people when time is of the essence. History has proven that the critical information provided by television and radio broadcasters can save lives."
  "Our local television and radio broadcasters were a lifeline to the people of Louisiana and the Gulf Coast as Hurricanes Katrina and Rita rolled ashore in 2005," said Senator Landrieu, Chairman of the Disaster Recovery Subcommittee of the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee. "They provided vital public safety information and comfort to thousands of people when both were needed the most. By serving at the front lines of disaster response, it is important to know that local broadcasters are, in fact, first responders." 
  The bill, to be introduced later this week in both the Senate and House of Representatives, would designate local radio and television stations providing essential disaster-related programming as "first response broadcasters" and open access to federal supplies of fuel, water and food. While highest priority would remain reserved for emergency services, health care facilities and public utilities, the bill would protect broadcasters' independently secured supplies from federal government seizure except in the most dire cases of emergency need. 
  The Landrieu-Stevens legislation also directs the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to expedite access to the disaster area by broadcast engineers to restore transmitters and other key broadcast facilities and infrastructure. To better protect these critical-to-air facilities, the bill establishes a Broadcast Disaster Preparedness Matching Grant Program. The grants could be used to protect, upgrade or enhance facilities and infrastructure to better position stations to continue providing vital public information during a disaster. 
  While the legislation does not guarantee expedited access to the disaster area by newsgathering personnel, such as print and broadcast reporters, photographers and writers, it does determine that press access guidelines after the disaster shall continue to be determined by the local agencies that had been so responsible before the disaster occurred. This creates a consistent model for journalist accreditation and eliminates the bureaucratic confusion created by multiple local and Federal agencies attempting to enforce conflicting access rules. 
  More information regarding the First Response Broadcasters Act, including full bill text and profiles of broadcaster efforts following recent major disasters, is available online at http://landrieu.senate.gov/broadcasters.
   Contact: Aaron Saunders, 202/224-1028; Steve Wackowski, 202/224-5122.  
 
 