SEN. STEVENS BLASTS NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION FOR BUDGET SHORTFALLS
  Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) today questioned retired Vice Admiral Conrad Lautenbacher, Under Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere and Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), on the significant reductions made to Alaska-related programs in the proposed Fiscal Year 2007 (FY07) NOAA Budget during a hearing held by the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.  
   "We have half the coastline in the United States, we are one-fifth the United States and we have two-thirds of the Outer Continental Shelf," said Stevens. "I have been on this committee for a long time and I was very disturbed by this budget when I first saw the analysis of projects in Alaska from NOAA. I know of no real reason for it... I know the Senate is tired of me asking this, but are we still a state as far as you are concerned?" 
   Thirteen Alaska-related programs were either eliminated or significantly reduced from the FY06 enacted budget level. The Administration is proposing a significant reduction to the Composite Research and Development Program for Alaska fisheries and marine mammals and the elimination of the Tsunami Warning and Environmental Observation System in Alaska, the Arctic Research Initiative, and the Barrow Arctic Research Center. These programs provide warnings to coastal communities in the event of a tsunami, engage in significant climate change research, assist in managing our fisheries resources, and provide the necessary resources which make up the core of NOAA's base budget. 
   Senator Stevens also questioned the Administrator extensively why, in the wake of the devastating tsunami in Southeast Asia, funding to the Tsunami Warning and Environmental Observation System in Alaska was eliminated. 
   "We have one of the tsunami warning systems that ties into the whole Pacific...that has been now zeroed out," said Stevens. "In other words, the contribution we make in relation to the rest of the Pacific about what is starting in North Pacific is totally eliminated...Our tsunami warning center had the responsibility for monitoring all coastal states in the United States and Canada...And it was totally eliminated from budgeting." 
   Stevens concluded the hearing by stating, "Admiral, you can take me off the side of being a supporter of your agency and put me down as one who is really critical for the balance of this year. I hope you'll go back and tell people that they should reexamine what they've done.".
   Contact: Courtney Boone, 202/224-1028; Janel Anderson, 202/224-5122. 
 
 