SEN. STEVENS URGES SWIFT IMPLEMENTATION OF TRANSPORTATION WORKER IDENTIFICATION CREDENTIAL PROGRAM
  Today, Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) chaired a hearing held by the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee. The purpose of this hearing was to review policy and management issues that have prevented the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) from launching its Transportation Worker Identification Credential (TWIC) program.  
   In his opening statement, Stevens cited a two-day lockdown of the Alyeska Pipeline's Valdez terminal as evidence of the need to accelerate TWIC's implementation. 
   Stevens explained that during a terrorist alert in 2003, "Terminal officials spent hours sifting through the employee documentation and databases in an effort to determine who was on the port premises. Had the TWIC program been in place, officials would have been able to quickly determine which employees were authorized to be in the secure areas of the terminal, which would have allowed officials to focus on the threat situation." 
   The Transportation Worker Identification Credential program was developed in response to the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, which exposed vulnerabilities in the nation's transportation system. The Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee first authorized the use of transportation worker credentials in the Aviation and Transportation Security Act of 2001. In 2002, and again in 2004, the Commerce Committee authorized the development and issuance of biometric security cards to control access to secure areas of ports or ships. The program is administered by the Transportation Security Administration and is an integral part of the administration's overarching efforts to overhaul security measures and to strengthen port security. Delays in the program's implementation have prompted the Department of Homeland Security and the Transportation Security Administration to accelerate its nationwide implementation. 
   On May 11, 2006, Chairman Stevens, along with 39 original cosponsors, introduced the Maritime, Rail and Public Transportation Security Act of 2006 (S. 2791). This legislation calls for the Department of Homeland Security to issue a final rule for TWIC no later than January 1, 2007.
 
 