SEN. STEVENS SECURES FEE EXEMPTION FOR MANY ALASKAN AVIATORS IN COMMITTEE-APPROVED FAA REAUTHORIZATION BILL
  Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska), Vice Chairman of the Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee, secured a fee exemption for many Alaskan aviators in S. 1300 (the Aviation Investment and Modernization Act of 2007), which was approved by the Committee today. The provision would expand the exemption in the underlying Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Reauthorization bill to exempt many Alaskan pilots and air carriers from paying the $25 per flight surcharge proposed in the original bill.  
  "I am concerned that this legislation as originally drafted places an undue burden on too many small carriers in rural parts of America, including Alaska," said Senator Stevens. "Changes to any portion of the aviation industry will have a tremendous impact on our State. This provision will exempt many of Alaska's aviators and will especially help our rural communities that rely so heavily on aviation as a basic means of transportation and commerce."
  The legislation reported by the Senate Commerce Committee would specifically address:
  ALASKA INTRASTATE EXEMPTION - The bill would specifically exempt all intrastate flights in Alaska from the $25 per flight modernization surcharge except those flights that both originate and terminate in airspace controlled by a terminal radar approach control facility.
  AIRPORT IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM - The original FAA proposal cut Airport Improvement Program (AIP) funding by nearly $1 billion each year. This Committee bill, as approved today, increases funding for airports starting at $3.8 billion in Fiscal Year 2008 and ending with $4.1 billion in Fiscal Year 2011. This bill would restore funding for Alaska's smallest airports which was cut in the original FAA proposal.
  ESSENTIAL AIR SERVICE - The original FAA proposal cut funding for the Essential Air Service (EAS) program, which is vital to Alaska. This program connects small communities to the national transportation system by ensuring a minimum level of scheduled air service. More than 140 rural communities across the nation, including 39 in Alaska, currently benefit from this program. 
  AGE 60 RULE: The bill would modify the FAA's outdated Age 60 rule by allowing commercial pilots to fly until age 65 if another pilot in the aircraft is less than 60 years old.
   Contact: Aaron Saunders, 202/224-1028, Steve Wackowski, 202/224-5122. 
 
 