ANWR WILL REMAIN IN SENATE BUDGET RESOLUTION
  Today, the United States Senate took first step on a long road to winning the opening of 2,000 acres of the Arctic Coastal Plain for responsible oil and gas development.  
   During debate on the FY06 Budget Resolution, the Senate approved the inclusion of ANWR revenue in the Budget by a vote of 51-49. The Senate voted, not to adopt an amendment by Senators Maria Cantwell (D-WA) and John Kerry (D- MA.) that would have stripped the FY06 budget resolution of instructions to open ANWR. 
   At a press conference following the victory, Sen. Ted Stevens told reporters that this was the beginning of carrying out the process of fulfilling the commitment made to Alaska in 1980. "This has been a tem effort and a bipartisan effort," Stevens noted referring to the pro-ANWR votes from Democratic Senators Daniel Inouye and Daniel Akaka of Hawaii and Mary Landrieu of Louisiana.
   "We've been after this now for 24 years," Stevens said. "We believe this is the greatest reservoir for oil and gas on the North American continent so it really must be explored and developed. The Senate has now moved towards keeping the promise it made to Alaskans in 1980."
   "This is a victory for Alaska where we have the opportunity to provide so much for country when it comes to our energy resources and this is a victory for us as Americans as we talk about ways that we move forward to provide for energy, economic and environmental security," Sen. Murkowski said. "I have repeated that in Alaska we have figured out how to produce fossilized fuels from our lands in a ways that is balance with the environment."
   "What we have demonstrated today is that a majority in the U.S. Senate understand the importance of increasing our domestic [energy] reserves." 
   Before ANWR can be opened for oil and gas leasing, the Senate must approve the FY06 Budget Resolution - a final vote is likely to occur on the Resolution by the end of the week. A Budget Reconciliation measure containing the ANWR language must then be approved by both the Senate and the House of Representatives and signed by the President. 
   During the press conference Stevens discussed the next steps toward final passage of ANWR and noted that the pressure to strike the language from the final Reconciliation by ANWR opponents would be intense. "I don't know what's out there," Stevens said. "We're going to stick with this until we win. And it's a long trail yet and we're going to be there all the way along until the President gets his reconciliation act. It's as important to me as the first step Armstrong took when he stepped on the moon...We won the election and we promised we'd do this when we won that election and that's meaningful to me."
   Contact: Elliott Bundy, 202/224-4513, 202/236-1037; Kristin Pugh, 202/224-9301, 202/997-5358; Courtney Boone, 202/224-1028.
 
 