SENATE APPROVES AMENDMENT TO EXTEND DEADLINE FOR WESTERN HEMISPHERE TRAVEL INITIATIVE
  Today, the United States Senate unanimously approved an amendment to the Comprehensive Immigration Reform Act of 2006 offered by Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) and Sen. Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.). The amendment, S.A. 4018, was passed by voice vote and extends the implementation deadline for the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative (WHTI) by 17 months. The new deadline will help ensure that the WHTI does not disproportionately impact Alaskans and those traveling to and from Alaska.  
   In his statement submitted for the Congressional Record, Senator Stevens reminded his Senate colleagues that, "Our state is the only state in the nation which cannot be accessed by land without passing through a foreign country. Alaskans are very concerned about the impact this initiative will have on travel to and from our state." 
   The WHTI was announced on April 5, 2005 by the Department of Homeland Security and the Department of State. Under this initiative, all U.S. citizens will be required to present a passport or other accepted secure document when entering the country. The original deadline for the initial implementation of the WHTI was January 1, 2008. The amendment passed today establishes a new deadline of June 1, 2009. 
   In his statement, Stevens questioned whether the Department of Homeland Security and the Department of State were operating under a realistic timeframe for imposing the new travel document plan. Extending the deadline, Stevens argued, will provide more time to properly test and implement the new guidelines. 
   The Comprehensive Immigration Reform Act of 2006 contains two additional Alaska-related provisions, which address seasonal workers and immigration services. If passed, one of these provisions will temporarily fix the H-2B visa problems currently encountered by seafood and hospitality workers. The second provision will allow the Bureau of Customs and Border Protection (CPB) and Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) to perform immigration services in areas that are inaccessible by road. 
   The Senate is scheduled to continue debate on the Comprehensive Immigration Reform Act of 2006 through the end of this week. A vote on this legislation is expected before the Memorial Day recess.
 
 