SENS. MURKOWSKI, STEVENS RESOLUTION HIGHLIGHTING NEED FOR INTERNET SAFETY EDUCATION PASSES SENATE
  The United States Senate last evening passed a resolution sponsored by Sen. Lisa Murkowski and Sen. Ted Stevens which designates June 2007 as National Internet Safety Month. The bipartisan resolution, S.Res.205, is designed to bring greater attention to the need for comprehensive Internet safety education.  
  "The Internet has become one of the most significant advances in the twentieth century and, as a result, it affects people's lives in a positive manner each day," said Senator Murkowski. "However, this technology presents dangers that need to be brought to the attention of all Americans. It is imperative that all Americans learn about the Internet safety strategies which will help keep their children safe from victimization."
  "The Internet is no longer a luxury for American families, but a necessity," said Senator Stevens. "It is important to provide a safe online environment for children because use of the Internet is an essential part of our children's education."
  The online victimization of America's youth has been and continues to be a serious problem. Internet access by children continues to grow at a high rate. Approximately 35 million children ranging in age from kindergarten to grade 12 have Internet access. Eighty percent of middle and high school students are online for at least one hour per week. Alarming statistics show that 61 percent of middle and high school youths admit to using the Internet unsafely or inappropriately. Furthermore, at least 20 percent of these students have met face-to-face with someone they first met online and 23 percent of these students know of someone who has been bullied online. And with this rapid increase in access, there has been a correlating rise in Internet crime and predatory behavior. This resolution can help America focus its attention on supporting Internet safety, especially bearing in mind that children will soon be on summer vacation and will subsequently spend more time online.
   Contact: Aaron Saunders, 202/224-1028, Steve Wackowski, 202/224-5122. 
 
 