SEN. STEVENS INTRODUCES LEGISLATION TO STOP HUMAN TRAFFICKING
  Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) has introduced S.2437, legislation to halt the practice of human trafficking by increasing the penalties levied on perpetrators; punishing individuals responsible for luring, transporting, and purchasing victims; and classifying human trafficking as a capital offense. Sens. Robert Byrd (D-W. Va.), Elizabeth Dole (R-N.C.), Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.), Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-Texas), Barbara Mikulski (D-Md.), and James Talent (R-Mo.) are cosponsors of this bill.  
   "Those involved in human trafficking should face severe criminal penalties. It is my hope that such penalties will discourage this type of activity," said Stevens. "Our country is a beacon of freedom for the world, and the idea that thousands of people each year are enslaved right in our own backyard sickens me. This must be stopped." 
   Stevens' legislation equips the court system with the tools it needs to curb human trafficking and punish the persons connected to this industry. This legislation sends a clear message to the world that the United States is committed to ending this on-going epidemic. 
   According to the U.S. Department of State, approximately 600,000 to 800,000 people worldwide are trafficked across borders each year. It is estimated that between 14,500 and 17,000 people are annually trafficked across the United States' borders. Many of these victims are children, the most vulnerable members of our society. 
   Human traffickers hold their victims against their will and force them into slavery or the sex industry, where they are threatened and often physically or sexually abused. It is estimated that this dangerous business generates $9.5 billion annually. Human trafficking activities have also been closely linked to organized crime, drug trafficking, and terrorist activities. 
   S. 2437 has been referred to the Judiciary Committee.
   Contact: Courtney Boone, 202/224-1028; Janel Causey, 202/ 224-5122.   
 
 