SEN. STEVENS CALLS FOR INCREASED OVERSIGHT OF DTV TRANSITION
  Senator Ted Stevens (R-Alaska), Vice Chairman of the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee, today called for increased oversight of the upcoming digital television transition scheduled for February 17, 2009. Senator Stevens made the statement during a Commerce Committee hearing on the digital television transition. 
   Senator Stevens' statement:
   "The digital transition will be a very positive milestone for this country, or milepost as we say in Alaska. But, as this milepost of February 17, 2009 approaches, it is critical that Congress maintain an active oversight role to ensure that consumers are properly educated about this transition and know how to avail themselves of the convertor box program.
   "This transition will reap important benefits for all Americans, especially with respect to public safety, which will receive much of the needed spectrum. Additionally, proceeds from the auction of the remaining spectrum will fund vital programs, providing $1 billion for interoperability grants, $1.5 billion for the convertor box program, more than $7 billion for deficit reduction, and $43.4 million for E-911.
   "This hearing, I hope, will focus on how the government and industry can work together to educate the public about the transition. The announcement, first from the cable industry and now from the broadcasters, regarding their education and outreach efforts is very positive news. I am also encouraged to hear that NTIA has been moving along with an aggressive schedule to administer the convertor box program. It is my understanding that two models of these convertor boxes have been certified as eligible to participate in that program.
   "I look forward to hearing how the witnesses will work together to ensure that these converter boxes make their way to all who will need them, especially vulnerable populations like senior citizens and people in remote areas such as the many villages in Alaska."
   Contact: Aaron Saunders, 202/224-1028; Steve Wackowski, 202/224-5122.
 
 