SEN. STEVENS SALUTES RETURNING ALASKA ARMY NATIONAL GUARD UNIT
  Senator Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) today honored the Third Battalion, 297th Infantry Regiment of the Alaska Army National Guard. After serving a year in Kuwait and Iraq, this unit, made up of more than 500 Alaska Army National Guard troops, has returned to the United States. A ceremony for the returning soldiers is being held today at Camp Shelby in Mississippi. 
   Senator Stevens, who attended the battalion's send-off last October, could not be present at today's event due to his official Senate duties in Washington D.C. However, the Senator praised the battalion, which is composed of troops from 81 Alaskan communities, in a floor statement this morning:  
   "Mr. President, today I ask the Senate to salute the men and women of the Third Battalion, 297th Infantry Regiment of the Alaska Army National Guard. 
   "This unit just returned from the Middle East for demobilization. Within days, the Alaska Army Guard members will start their return journey back to Alaska.
   "Today, they will be honored at a Welcome Home Ceremony at Camp Shelby in Mississippi. I had hoped to be with them today, but due to the votes here in the Senate and my committee assignments, I have remained in Washington, D.C. 
   "The Third Battalion served with distinction in both Kuwait and Iraq over the past year. When this unit was mobilized in 2006, it represented the largest mobilization of the Alaska National Guard since World War II. These Guard members represent 81 communities in our state, including many Alaska Native villages. 
   "Before their deployment last October, Senator Murkowski and I met with this Battalion at Camp Shelby. It was an exciting day for members of the units who had successfully completed their pre-deployment training. And I was impressed with their high morale and dedication to our country. 
   "Most of the members of the Alaska Guard left behind families and jobs in Alaska to be part of this mission. Their departure caused hardships for their families and communities, especially in their small villages. But they were steadfast in their commitment to the mission and to our country. 
   "The dedication of the Third Battalion reminds us that in our nation's darkest moments - when freedom has been on the line - our citizen soldiers have answered the call to serve. Their duties and traditions are deeply rooted in our country's history. During the Civil War and World War II, it was our citizen soldier who tipped the balance and ensured our victory. 
   "Members of the Third Battalion have carried forward this proud tradition. Their dedication to serve reflects the bravery and courage of those who came before them. Many of them are the descendents of those who served with Colonel Muktuk Marston and other Eskimo Scouts in the 'Tundra Army' during World War II. During that war, in which I served, their predecessors defended our freedom in Alaska and around the world. And I remember well the heroism of the National Guardsmen I served with in World War II. These people now have also earned the honor of being called the 'Greatest Generation.' 
   "There are few of us left who lived through that dark history of World War II. But as I reflect on their service, I appreciate their bravery, commitment, and dedication. The men and women in uniform today are truly our newest 'Greatest Generation.' We are comrades in the deepest sense of the word, and we should salute their service.
   "As citizen soldiers, they are a force not only on the battlefield, but also a force in their communities. They are the link between the standing military units they serve and the people they protect. They also answer the call in national disasters.
   "In recent months their mission was critical to the overall success of our operations in the Middle East and Iraq. And all Alaskans - especially those in their communities - are proud of their service. 
   "On a day when we honor the Third Battalion, I believe we should also take a moment to reflect on those who we have lost. Tragically, two Alaska Army Guard soldiers were killed and two were gravely injured in a training accident near Camp Shelby last year. We still mourn their deaths and send our deepest condolences to their families and friends. 
   "Mr. President, we should ask God to bless them and God to bless the brave men and women, like the Alaska Army National Guard, who volunteer to defend our great country. The thoughts and prayers of Alaskans - and, I think, a grateful nation - are with all of them."
   Listen to Audio Clip at http://src.senate.gov/public/_files/radio/stevens10_17_07.mp3
   Contact: Aaron Saunders, 202/224-1028; Steve Wackowski, 202/224-5122.
 
 