SEN. STEVENS CALLS FOR COAST GUARD MODERNIZATION
  Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska), Vice Chair of the Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee, today called for the modernization of the USCG, including improvements to its Deepwater program. These comments were made during a Commerce Committee hearing on the U.S. Coast Guard's Fiscal Year 2008 budget.  
  "I am concerned about the recent reports of cost overruns and delays with the Deepwater program. Many of the Coast Guard's existing fleet of vessels and aircraft are nearing or have reached the end of their service lives," said Senator Stevens. "The U.S. Coast Guard in Alaska has the daunting task of patrolling an area over three and a half million square miles. Modernizing the Coast Guard must remain a top priority."
  Senator Stevens asked Coast Guard Commandant Thad Allen about a report on the LORAN system, an important backup for the Global Positioning System (GPS) used by the aviation and marine sectors. Senator Stevens expressed concern with the Coast Guard's attempt to shut down LORAN before future GPS systems are fully developed. Admiral Allen's response listed three options available for the LORAN system: phasing it out; maintaining the status quo by repairing existing equipment; or transitioning to the E-LORAN system, which is an advanced LORAN intended to serve as a backup to future GPS systems. Admiral Allen said the report has not yet been filed because the Coast Guard is very close to making a final decision about LORAN.
  Senator Stevens also addressed the problem of illegal, unreported, and unregulated fishing (IUU) outside of the 200-mile limit, especially around Alaska. Senator Stevens asked Admiral Allen about the feasibility of equipping foreign commercial fishing boats on the high seas with transponders to ensure they do not engage in this destructive practice. Allen said he believes the concept is feasible and that talks are underway to establish technical standards and an implementation process.
  "To take care of this problem, of Illegal, Unreported and Unregulated fishing, there has to be an identification of who is fishing illegally, a capability to warn them, and if there is a persistent violation, some kind of law enforcement," said Senator Stevens. "There has to be some way to put the fear of God in those people to make them lay off our fish."
   Contact: Aaron Saunders, 202/224-1028; Steve Wackowski, 202/224-5122.
 
 