SEN. STEVENS WELCOMES SECOND GROUP OF HIGH SCHOOL SUMMER INTERNS
  Recent high school graduates from Anchorage, Big Lake, Eagle River, Fairbanks, and Palmer have arrived in Washington, D.C. to participate in the second session of Sen. Ted Stevens' (R-Alaska) summer internship program. 
   For more than three decades, Senator Stevens has provided graduating high school seniors from Alaska the opportunity to work in the heart of our nation's capital. The students listed below began their internships on July 10th and will finish on August 4th.  
   David Brescia (Eagle River), son of David and Karen Brescia, graduated with honors from Chugiak High School. David was involved in theater at the high school and community levels, and he was an active member of the National Honor Society. This fall, David will pursue a degree in bio-engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. 
   Nikolai Buser (Big Lake), son of Kathy Chapoton and famous Alaskan musher Martin Buser, graduated with honors from Wasilla High School. Nikolai is an avid snowboarder and was a member of the cross-country and track teams. He plans to attend the University of Washington in Seattle and pursue a career in orthopedic surgery. 
   Rose Cain (Fairbanks), daughter of Rebecca Clack and Raymond Cain, is a graduate of West Valley High School. Rose was a member of her school's swimming and diving team for four years and competed at the state level. Rose also participated in the state solo ensemble contest. She enjoys music, snowboarding, gymnastics, and photography. She plans to attend the University of Alaska Fairbanks this fall, where she will pursue a teaching degree. 
   Serame Castillo (Anchorage), son of Serame and Ana Castillo, graduated from East High School, where he was active in track and cross-country. Serame was president of Model United Nations and a judge in the Anchorage Youth Court. He also served as class president during each year of high school. Serame plans to study international relations at Boston University in the fall. 
   Claire Choi (Anchorage), daughter of Cera Choi, graduated this year as valedictorian of Bartlett High School. Claire served as president of the National Honor Society and president of the student body. She has interned in Anchorage Mayor Mark Begich's office for the past three years. Claire will study economics and international relations at the University of Pennsylvania, and she hopes to pursue a career in business and diplomacy. 
   Bryant Hopkins (Fairbanks), son of John and Kathleen Hopkins, graduated from West Valley High School. Bryant was student council president and a member of the National Honor Society. He is also the principal cellist for the All State Music Festival. Last year, Bryant served as a page in the U.S. Senate. He plans to study math and political science at Columbia University and pursue a career in business or public service. 
   Alex Propes (Anchorage), son of Carl and Barbara Propes, is a recent graduate of South Anchorage High School. In his spare time, Alex enjoys alpine skiing, reading, and soccer. This fall, Alex plans to attend Northern Arizona University. 
   Kelsey Pilch (Palmer), daughter of John and Kim Pilch, graduated with honors from Palmer High School. Kelsey was student body president and an active member of the National Honor Society. She also played volleyball and soccer. This fall, Kelsey will major in international business at the University of Idaho. 
   Katie Walther (Anchorage), daughter of Dale and Kay Walther, graduated from Dimond High School, where she was a member of the varsity tennis team, the National Honor Society, Mu Alpha Theta, and Key Club. Katie also played the trumpet in the band and was active in soccer. Katie writes for the "Perfect World" section of Anchorage Daily News. She plans to study business at Brigham Young University. 
   Kyle Whisenhant (Fairbanks), son of Greg and Jennifer Whisenhant, is a recent graduate of West Valley High School. Kyle enjoys cross-country skiing, running, canoeing, and singing in choir. He is also a guide for the Alaska Railroad. This fall, Kyle will attend University of Alaska Fairbanks.
 
 