SEN. STEVENS INTRODUCES BILL TO IMPROVE ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES SAFETY
  Senator Ted Stevens (R-Alaska), Vice Chairman of the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, today introduced the All-Terrain Vehicle Standards and Compliance Act of 2007. The bill would require all companies and manufacturers who market and sell all-terrain vehicles (ATVs) in the United States to meet the same product safety standards. It would also help ensure adequate training and safety information are provided to consumers. Senator Stevens announced the introduction of the legislation during a Commerce Committee meeting on the safety of imports from China. 
  "Many rural Alaskans use ATVs every day for work and recreation," said Senator Stevens. "This legislation would protect them - and all who use ATVs - by mandating streamlined safety standards and sales practices for all ATV manufacturers. ATVs that do not meet these stringent product safety standards create serious safety hazards for those who use them, especially our children."
  The Senate Commerce Committee recently held two hearings to examine manufacturer compliance with existing ATV product safety standards. Information submitted during the hearings, including testimony from the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC), showed that many new ATVs imported into the United States do not meet current industry safety standards and are being sold to American consumers without adequate warnings, instructions, or training opportunities. 
  On June 5, 2007, the CPSC issued a warning to U.S. consumers about ATVs manufactured in China that do not meet strict U.S. safety requirements. The CPSC's warning centered around several specific safety features that are missing from the imported Chinese ATVs, including front breaks, parking breaks, and an ability to start the vehicle in gear. The measure introduced by Senator Stevens would directly address these and other safety issues associated with imported ATVs by requiring companies to comply with the same basic safety standards and sales practices.
   Contact: Aaron Saunders, 202/224-1028; Steve Wackowski, 202/224-5122. 
 
 