SEN. STEVENS PRAISES ADVANCEMENTS MADE POSSIBLE BY UNIVERSAL SERVICE FUND
  Today, during a Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee hearing, Chairman Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) praised the progress that has been made since the inception of the Universal Service Fund (USF). Today's hearing was the first of three that will be convened by the Committee to review the Communications, Consumers' Choice, and Broadband Deployment Act of 2006 (S. 2686), legislation that Sen. Ted Stevens unveiled earlier this month.  
   During the hearing, Stevens stressed that the communications services made possible by USF have made Alaska a safer place to live. He told his colleagues about a man who was snowmachining near Mt. McKinley when he suddenly dropped into a crevasse, wedging his machine. The man was rescued because he was able to connect to 9-1-1 on his cell phone, emitting a signal that a satellite was able to detect. "The world has changed," said Stevens, "and there is a safety factor now in communication that is assured by the Universal Service Fund." 
   At the end of the hearing, Stevens added, "There must be some mechanism to satisfy the demand of the public; access to modern communications is now an American right. We intend to see that this bill preserves that right." 
   The Communications, Consumers' Choice, and Broadband Deployment Act of 2006 reforms existing communications laws. Its provisions promote competition, cost savings for consumers, and the speedy deployment of broadband services to all Americans. An integral component of this legislation is the Universal Service Fund, a federal program designed to offset the cost of building and operating telecommunications networks in rural areas of the United States. The bill also stipulates that carriers receiving USF support must provide broadband access within five years of the bill's enactment. 
   The second hearing on the Communications, Consumers' Choice, and Broadband Deployment Act of 2006 is scheduled for Thursday, May 25, 2006.
 
 