SEN. STEVENS ASKS DRUG ENFORCEMENT ADMINISTRATION FOR ASSISTANCE IN COMBATING ALASKA'S GROWING METH PROBLEM
  Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) today urged Karen Tandy, Administrator of the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), to commit additional resources to Alaska to help prevent the importation of methamphetamine (meth). The Senator said that Alaska's meth problem has reached "crisis stage." The Senator's comments came at a Senate Appropriations Subcommittee hearing on the proposed 2008 budget for federal law enforcement agencies.  
  During the question-and-answer session with Ms. Tandy, Senator Stevens suggested that while the number of meth labs uncovered in Alaska has decreased, meth use in the State, particularly in Native villages, is still rampant. According to DEA statistics, 62 meth labs were found in Alaska in 2004. In 2005, 45 were broken up, but the amount of meth seized statewide more than tripled during this timespan. 
  "There is an overwhelming amount of meth. It's in small villages of 20 and 40 families," said Senator Stevens. "It's finding its way all of the way through the 240 small Native villages in my state. And it is the number one problem that we face." 
  Senator Stevens believes meth is entering Alaska through cargo received at the Anchorage International Airport from Pacific islands and countries in the Far East. Ms. Tandy agreed. 
  "The production in the Pacific and areas outside of China, Malaysia, Indonesia, the Philippines are all matters that DEA is focused on," said Ms Tandy. "We have the largest law enforcement presence of any U.S. law enforcement agency outside of this country. We have focused our resources on the foreign side in the very areas that you've talked about, as well as the Western Hemisphere and beyond." 
  Senator Stevens also expressed concern that after arriving in Alaska, meth is shipped to small villages using the United States Postal Service. 
  "I hope you would take a look at the concept of working out some cooperation with the various local people. This meth has to be getting out to these villages through the post office. The only thing that goes into these villages is what we call bypass mail. Somewhere, someone is putting together packages that contain meth and we're subsidizing the transportation of that package into every village in the state. I do think it's a matter of investigation," said Senator Stevens. 
  One potential remedy proposed by Senator Stevens was to increase the DEA's presence in Alaska. Currently, only 11 DEA agents work in the State. 
  "I understand, Senator, and this has been part of DEA's problem," said Ms. Tandy. "We are in a hiring freeze and are unable to expand our agent presence. To the contrary, we're having to reduce our number of agents in order to meet our budget. The agents in Alaska - beyond Alaska, everywhere in the United States - those agents that were focused on domestic labs have shifted their focus to assisting in these investigations for the smuggling of finished meth into Alaska and elsewhere in the United States.".
   Contact: Aaron Saunders, 202/224-1028; Steve Wackowski, 202/224-5122.
 
 