HOUSE-SENATE DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS CONFERECE APPROVES ANWR
  The House-Senate Defense Appropriations Conference Committee today voted to include language in the Fiscal Year 2006 (FY06) Defense Appropriations Conference Report that allows oil and gas exploration in the Arctic Coastal Plain. The Conference Committee adopted language from the American Energy Independence and Security Act of 2005. This language is similar to legislation previously passed by the House.  
   "For more than 20 years, I have been fighting to open the Arctic Coastal Plain to oil and gas exploration," said Stevens. "The Defense Department is the largest consumer of oil in the federal government. We must develop our domestic resources in the Coastal Plain to ensure we can meet our defense-related energy needs and reduce our dependence on unstable and unfriendly regimes." 
   "Higher energy costs are squeezing family budgets, undermining farms and small businesses, jeopardizing jobs, and threatening the long-term health of our economy," said Senator Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska). "It's time to both accelerate energy conservation efforts and to produce more energy in this country. Limited oil exploration in the Arctic Coastal Plain will improve our energy independence and strengthen our energy security." 
  The conference report authorizes the establishment of the Gulf Coast Recovery Fund, which will use a portion of the revenues generated from federal oil and gas leasing operations in the Arctic Coastal Plain to assist communities devastated by Hurricanes Katrina, Rita, and Wilma. It also dedicates a portion of the revenues to the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP), ensuring a long-term funding stream for this important program. 
   The measure also allocates any revenues in excess of $10 billion from the Digital Transition and Public Safety Fund, which will be generated by the sale of spectrum. The excess revenues will fund the Gulf Coast Recovery Fund, conservation programs, and homeland security operations, including interoperability communications equipment grants, grants to local and state governments for the improvement of disaster plans and preparations for a terrorist attack or natural disaster, and border security programs.
   Contact: Courtney Boone, 202/224-1028.
 
 