SENS. STEVENS SECURES NEARLY $90 MILLION FOR THE DENALI COMMISSION IN OMNIBUS APPROPRIATIONS BILL
  Today Congress approved nearly $90 million for the Denali Commission, funding championed by Senator Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) as part of the Fiscal Year 2008 Appropriations Omnibus Bill. This measure (H.R. 2764) has now been sent to the President to be signed into law.  
  Specifically, the Omnibus Appropriations bill provides the Denali Commission $21.6 million for general Commission activities. The Commission also received $38.5 million for the construction of rural health and social service facilities; approximately $10 million for grants to subsidize high-cost energy; $4.9 million for rural roads, docks and waterfront development; an additional $7.35 million specifically for rural roads; $6.75 million for rural job training programs; and $434,000 to combat contamination of drinking water by deficient solid waste disposal sites.
   "Unemployment, the high cost of basic goods, lack of infrastructure, and access to adequate healthcare are a just a few factors that create difficult circumstances for rural Alaskans," said Senator Stevens. "Properly funding the Denali Commission is the best way to address these issues and meet the needs of rural Alaskans."
  Since its creation by Congress in 1998, the Denali Commission has served more than 100 Alaska communities. The Commission has improved the living conditions of rural Alaska by providing job training, teacher housing, and funds to improve handling solid waste. The bulk fuel projects undertaken by the Commission have reduced the costs of rural energy and new health clinics have increased the availability of health services to rural villages that are isolated from metropolitan areas. In addition, the unique structure of the Commission ensures the most efficient allocation of federal funds, as it caps administrative expenses at five percent and capitalizes on the use of strategic partnerships. 
  "The Denali Commission has served as an efficient means to fund projects in rural Alaska. By eliminating the high administrative costs common in federal agencies, the Commission stretches every dollar it receives. Over the decade, it has become clear that channeling funds through the Denali Commission is the best use of taxpayer dollars," said Senator Stevens.
   Contact: Aaron Saunders, 202/224-1028; Steve Wackowski, 202/224-5122.
 
 