CONGRESS APPROVES FUNDING FOR PACIFIC SALMON COMMISSION
  Congress today supported, through appropriations in the omnibus spending bill (H.R. 2764), a number of programs to be administered by the Department of State and operated in foreign countries. Senator Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) was instrumental in securing funding for these programs that will enhance America's foreign relationships. 
   One such program, the Pacific Salmon Commission, a panel created by the Pacific Salmon Treaty, will receive $3 million** to provide the United States' portion of funding toward the Commission. The Commission manages Fraser River salmon stocks in British Columbia. This program is important to furthering the cooperation of the United States with Canada to protect commercial fisheries for both countries.
   "Cooperating with the nations of the world is imperative to ensure fish stocks remain healthy in the future," said Senator Stevens. "I am pleased Congress continues to support the Pacific Salmon Treaty, and with it, sustainable fisheries worldwide.
   This year, $300 million is allocated to continue efforts to provide basic equipment to drill local water wells and address the need for clean drinking water in Third World countries. The program was expanded to include Alaska at Senator Stevens' request.
   Additionally, the Senate Appropriations Committee recommended that the State Department consider several proposals for grants for Alaska entities:
   The International Polar Year GEOSS and Permafrost Conference in Fairbanks, Alaska - The International Permafrost Association, which sponsors the event, encourages cooperation among permafrost scientists and engineers throughout the world. This year's conference is of particular importance as it corresponds with the International Polar Year, which promotes convergence of scientific endeavors in permafrost regions.
   The Northern Forum - Funds allocated to the Northern Forum are used to support sustainable development and implementation of cooperative socio-economic initiatives among Northern regions.
   Arctic Council - The Council, which will meet in Anchorage, focuses on sustainable economic, social, and environmental development in the Arctic.
   ** Funding levels for the Department of State contained in the Omnibus Appropriations Act are subject to a 0.91 percent reduction as part of a bipartisan compromise needed to pass the bill. All spending figures in this press release due not reflect these reductions.
   Contact: Aaron Saunders, 202/224-1028; Steve Wackowski, 202/224-5122.
 
 