SEN. STEVENS SECURES FUNDING TO ADDRESS COASTAL EROSION IN ALASKA
  Senator Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) has continued his efforts to secure federal funding to address Alaska's growing coastal erosion problems, this time in the Omnibus Appropriations Bill (H.R. 2764), which passed Congress today. At Senator Stevens' request, the bill allocates $4.9 million to the Army Corps of Engineers for erosion-related projects in Alaska. 
   Villages identified in the Government Accountability Office's 2003 study can apply for a portion of these funds. These villages include Kivalina, Newtok, Shishmaref, Koyukuk, Barrow, Koktovik, Point Hope, Unalakleet, and Bethel.
   "This $5 million is just a small portion of the money required to protect our villages from coastal erosion," said Senator Stevens. "But each dollar is an important step forward. If the construction of a new seawall and other mitigation measures can help save a village, then Congress should do its part in making those funds available."
   Senator Stevens also worked to include bill language that directs the Army Corps of Engineers to report to the Alaska Congressional Delegation and present an action plan that will recommend the most appropriate course of action for villages affected by erosion. These plans should discuss the viability of village relocation and erosion stabilization, a preliminary cost estimate, and, at a minimum, the first year funding requirements.
   "While funding to combat coastal erosion buys us time, it is clear that we need a comprehensive plan for each of our villages," said Senator Stevens. "Greater cooperation and coordination is going to be the key as we determine long-term solutions for our coastal communities."
   The 2003 GAO report on coastal erosion in Alaska found that 184 of 213 villages in the State have been affected by erosion and flooding. Four of those villages, Kivalina, Newtok, Shishmaref and Koyukuk, were declared "in imminent danger." Since then, Senator Stevens has held a series of public hearings and private meetings to discuss the issue and determine funding priorities.
   Contact: Aaron Saunders, 202/224-1028; Steve Wackowski, 202/224-5122.
 
 