SEN. STEVENS ASKS STATE DEPARTMENT TO ADDRESS PASSPORT BACKLOG
  Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) and 55 of his Senate colleagues recently expressed concern over the U.S. Department of State's passport application process, which has delayed the travel plans of thousands of Americans. In a letter to Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, the bipartisan group of Senators called on the State Department to end the passport backlog, return processing times to normal, and cease charging fees to expedite passports "whose issuance is delayed by the Department's failure to plan for the increased volume of passport applications."  
  The Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative (WHTI) requires all U.S. citizens to present a passport or other accepted secure document when entering the United States. The air portion of the WHTI was implemented on January 23, 2007, but the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and the State Department recently announced they have loosened these requirements due to a severe backlog of passport requests. According to the State Department, it now takes 10 to 12 weeks for travelers to receive their passports. Previously, the wait time for a passport was four to six weeks. 
  "It is unacceptable that American citizens were missing trips because the State Department did not fully anticipate the increase in passport applications and take appropriate action to increase processing resources. Your announcement last week that the Department would suspend until September 30 the passport requirement for air travel from Canada, Mexico, Bermuda, and the Caribbean was an important, if belated, recognition of the serious problems processing delays were causing travelers," the Senators wrote in the letter to Secretary Rice. 
  "However, people traveling to other parts of the globe are still in jeopardy of having to cancel their trips because of the backlog on processing passports. We continue to be concerned that citizens traveling to places that still require a passport will incur significant expenses to cancel trips or rearrange their plans because of delays in passport processing. In addition, we fear that the current backlog will recur after the temporary relief expires on September 30, and that there will be tremendous complications when the new Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative (WHTI) land and sea requirements are implemented."
  During the past two Congresses, Senator Stevens has sponsored a series of measures designed to ensure that DHS and the State Department are fully prepared to institute the WHTI. Just last week, the Senate Committee on Appropriations adopted an amendment sponsored by Senator Stevens and Senator Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) which would extend the implementation deadline for land and sea portions of the WHTI. This amendment would require DHS and the State Department to institute WHTI guidelines no earlier than June 1, 2009. The Bush Administration currently plans to begin implementing these requirements on January 1, 2008.
   Contact: Aaron Saunders, 202/224-1028; Steve Wackowski, 202/224-5122.  
 
 