COMMERCE COMMITTEE APPROVES SEN. STEVENS SPONSORED LEGISLATION
  The Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation unanimously approved legislation championed by Senator Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) in today's full committee markup. The following is a short summary of the bills, which now await consideration by the full Senate.  
  The Hydrographic Services Improvement Act (S. 1582)
   This measure is co-sponsored by Committee Chairman Daniel Inouye (D-Hawaii). S. 1582 would amend the Hydrographic Services Improvement Act of 1998 by allowing the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) to circulate new standards for hydrographic data, develop nautical charts, and contract and operate ships to acquire hydrographic data.
  "Alaska has the largest hydrographic survey backlog in the entire United States, and some of our nautical charts still rely on soundings taken by Captain James Cook's crew in 1778," said Senator Stevens. "This bill would promote safe and efficient marine navigation by authorizing NOAA to address backlogs in Alaska and throughout our nation."
  The Protecting Children from Indecent Programming Act (S. 1780) 
   This legislation is also co-sponsored by Chairman Inouye and would require the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to maintain a policy that the broadcast of a single word or image may be considered indecent. 
  "I am pleased to see the Commerce Committee swiftly approve this bill," said Senator Stevens. "It is important to give the FCC the tools it needs to continue to protect the American public from indecency on the radio and broadcast television."
  The Same Number Act of 2007 (S. 1769)
   This legislation would assist consumers who seek to keep the same phone number when switching between telephone service providers. S.1769 proposes to expedite the number portability process and ensure that it covers all voice services in order to help consumers take advantage of less expensive and more innovative choices.
  "As better, more affordable voice services become available, many consumers decide to switch to new providers," said Senator Stevens. "Requiring the FCC to update its number portability rules will enable those individuals to keep their existing numbers, and help them stay connected with friends, family, and other close contacts."
   Contact: Aaron Saunders, 202/224-1028; Steve Wackowski, 202/224-5122.  
 
 