SEN. STEVENS CO-SPONSORS BUDGET AMENDMENTS THAT BENEFIT ALASKA
  The U.S. Senate early this morning passed the Congressional Budget Resolution (S. Con. Res. 70), legislation that lays out the spending guidelines for the coming budget year and provides internal control for the appropriations process. S. Con. Res. 70 includes two provisions co-sponsored by Senator Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) that will bring additional aid to Alaskans. 
   First, Senator Stevens joined Senators Arlen Specter (R-Penn.) and Tom Harkin (D-Iowa) in sponsoring a measure to boost funding for the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP). The Specter-Harkin amendment adds $1 billion to the President's budget for the program.
   "Since 2001, both wages and LIHEAP assistance have failed to keep up with rising home energy costs. Heating oil prices have more than tripled in that time," said Senator Stevens. "Our rural communities are demonstrably healthier, happier, and more productive when LIHEAP is well funded. These are subsistence economies with no way to catch up to the spiraling costs of world oil and gas prices."
   LIHEAP provides a vital safety net for low-income households, disabled individuals, and senior citizens in Alaska and throughout the nation. The program also helps low-income homeowners weatherize their homes to save energy and lower their energy expenses. In Alaska, LIHEAP is administered through the State Department of Health and Social Services.
   Second, Senator Stevens co-sponsored Senator Byron Dorgan's (D-N.D.) amendment to increase the Indian Health Services (IHS) account. IHS is responsible for providing federal health services to 1.5 million American Indians and Alaska Natives belonging to more than 557 federally recognized tribes. This additional $1 billion will allow for the continuation and enhancement of programs administered by IHS, including those in Alaska.
   "A number of tribal health organizations have been forced to reduce staff and programs because of inadequate funding over the last couple of years," said Senator Stevens. "This increase in IHS funds will help us to curtail these cuts while continuing to address the needs of Alaska Natives as we bring their standard of living up to that of Americans in the Lower 48."
   Contact: Aaron Saunders, 202/224-1028; Steve Wackowski, 202/224-5122.
 
 