SENS. STEVENS, INOUYE RECEIVE 2005 AMERICAN PATRIOT AWARD
  This evening Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) and Sen. Daniel Inouye (D-Hawaii) received the 2005 American Patriot Award from the National Defense University Foundation. The Senators were honored jointly for their bi-partisan cooperation and dedication to our nation's security. 
   Described as a "celebration of the unique American spirit of patriotism" by the National Defense University Foundation, the American Patriot Award is the highest honor awarded by the Foundation. 
   "'Respond, serve, and sacrifice.' For over 200 years, these principals have guided the most committed and faithful of American citizens - citizens who possess a dedication to preserving the American way of life, regardless of the cost to themselves and with no expectation of reward," stated master of ceremonies, Paula Zahn, host of CNN's Paula Zahn Now. "These are the principles that the National Defense University Foundation recognizes tonight with the presentation of the American Patriot Award."
   Senator Daniel Inouye was honored for his "remarkable valor in World War II and for his Congressional leadership for more than 45 years." Following the attacks on Pearl Harbor in 1941 Inouye immediately enlisted in the Army. While fighting in the European Theater he suffered multiple gunshot wounds and a grenade blast that shattered his right arm. In 2000, Inouye received the Medal of Honor for his bravery. In 1959, he became Hawaii's first Congressman and was elected to the Senate in 1962. Inouye serves as co-chairman of the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee and as co-chairman of the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation. 
   "I am deeply humbled to represent you. My father told me to serve my country; he insisted that I have faith in America. My father told me that if I must die, that I must die with honor. He told me that I was to try my best to serve my country and that I was never to dishonor it or my family," stated Senator Daniel Inouye. "I am deeply honored to be here with my friend Ted Stevens. We disagree as friends often do, but our love for this country is true. We do our utmost to be certain America will stand strong." 
   Retired Major General Charles Link, president and chief executive officer of the National Defense University Foundation stated, "Daniel Inouye has proven that America is not just a set of borders or ideals. It is our identity and our legacy - a monument to our collective values that requires the guardianship of each passing generation. His journey has spanned the globe and taken its toll on him in many ways, but his declaration - his statement of service - will continue to echo forever into America's future"
   Senator Stevens was honored for "his sustained dedication to advancing the nation's security policy and for his service in World War II." During World War II, Stevens was a pilot in the China-Burma-India Theater, supporting the Flying Tigers of the 14th Army Air Corps. He received two Distinguished Flying Crosses, two Air Medals, and the Yuan Hai medal awarded by the Republic of China. Today he is the president pro tempore of the U.S. Senate and is a member of the Republican leadership team. Stevens serves as chairman of the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee and as the chairman of the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation. 
   "Dan is my brother in the deepest sense of the word. We have worked hard to ensure our troops have the support and resources needed to complete their missions," said Stevens upon receipt of the American Patriot Award. 
   During his remarks, Stevens also reflected on his upbringing and his experiences during World War II, mentioning the influence his grandparents, his Aunt Gladys, and his Uncle Walter, a World War I veteran, who was "truly a father to me." 
   Stevens concluded by stating, "I am honored to follow my friend and Congressional Medal of Honor winner Dan Inouye in receiving this award. It is an honor to stand with him before you tonight."
   "Senator Stevens served heroically in World War II and stood face-to-face with the Soviet Union across the Bering Strait during the Cold War," stated former Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Richard Myers in his tribute to the award recipients. "His brave service and his unwavering leadership throughout the years give him the credibility and the vision that America needs as we discuss our most pressing national security challenges."
   Inouye and Stevens are the sixth and seventh recipients of the award. Other recipients include General Colin Powell, former Secretary of Defense Casper Weinberger, former President George H.W. Bush, the men and women of our nation's defense team, and former Senator Robert J. Dole (R-Kansas).
   Established in 1982, the National Defense University Foundation supports the mission of the National Defense University, the country's center for national security education, research and outreach for military, government and diplomatic leaders. The Foundation nurtures high standards of scholarship by promoting innovation and excellence in education.
   Contact: Courtney Boone, 202/224-1028.
 
 