SEN. STEVENS TO SERVE AS LEAD REPUBLICAN ON DISASTER RECOVERY PANEL
  Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) has announced he will serve as the Ranking Member of the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee's new Disaster Recovery Subcommittee. This position will allow him to address a variety of problems facing Alaska, including those associated with coastal erosion.  
   "Alaskans face many types of natural disasters, including earthquakes, tsunamis, volcanic eruptions, and cyclones." said Senator Stevens. "My position on this subcommittee will help ensure the federal government properly addresses the needs of Alaskans, particularly those affected by severe coastal erosion." 
   As Ranking Member of this new subcommittee, Senator Stevens plans to bring attention to the 184 Alaskan villages struggling to prevent and recover from serious flooding and erosion problems. More generally, the Disaster Recovery Subcommittee will oversee the coordination of the long-term recovery plans and activities provided by all federal agencies, non-governmental organizations, the private sector, and state and local governments. It will coordinate disaster-related data sharing between federal agencies, and also oversee the development and execution of national disaster recovery and housing strategies. 
   The new subcommittee's role will include oversight of the recovery provisions of the Robert T. Stafford Act, which requires the federal government to assist state and local governments' relief efforts in the event of an emergency or disaster. Elements of the National Response Plan, including the disaster response functions of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, will also be under the jurisdiction of this new subcommittee. 
   Eighty percent of the active volcanoes in the U.S. and 52 percent of the earthquakes that occur in the country are located in Alaska. In the past, Alaska has received federal disaster assistance to aide communities impacted by these natural disasters. During the 109th Congress, Senator Stevens sponsored two pieces of legislation addressing disaster preparedness that were recently signed into law, the Warning and Alert (WARN) Act, which establishes a wireless emergency alert capability, and the Tsunami Warning and Education Act.
 
 