SEN. STEVENS WELCOMES ALASKA COLLEGE STUDENTS FOR SUMMER INTERN PROGRAM
  Alaska college students participating in Sen. Ted Stevens' Intern Program have arrived in Washington, D.C. Stevens selected Alaska students from Akiachak, Anchorage, Eagle River, Fairbanks, Juneau, and McGrath to participate in the program, which provides first-hand experience working in the federal government through various legislative projects and assignments. 
   In its 36th year, Senator Stevens' intern program is one of the most intensive in the Senate. Aspects include assisting staff members with legislation, archiving historical data, and assisting the press staff with news releases, website maintenance and research. The length of individual internships varies with college-term schedules. Following are the interns participating in this year's program, according to region:
   * Akiachak
   Lovina Lomack is from Akiachak and is the daughter of Jackson and Fancy Lomack and graduated in 2002 from Mt. Edgecumbe High School. She is studying Accounting at the University of Alaska, Anchorage, and will be a junior next semester. Lovina loves to study and enjoys music, traveling and meeting new people. After college she plans to live and work in Alaska.
   * Anchorage
   Amanda Ahern, daughter of Dennis and Debra Ahern, graduated from Robert Service High School in 2001. She attends Colorado State University in Fort Collins, Colorado where she is studying Business. Amanda spends her spare time with the Pre-physical Therapy and Pre-medical Clubs. She also enjoys playing tennis and participating in gymnastics. Upon graduating from college she plans to attend law school.
   Brian Hughes is the son of Marti and Patrick Hughes. Brian is a 2001 graduate of Robert Service High School and is now attending Washington State in Pullman, Washington. He is majoring in Finance and Political Science and plans pursue a Mater's degree in Political Science after graduating. In Brian's spare time he enjoys fishing, baseball, soccer and basketball.
   Josh Oviatt, son of George and Jani Oviatt, is a graduate of Polaris. He is studying Political Science at Chapman University in Orange, California. He is a two term President of Alpha Delta Phi Fraternity, the current Commissioner of Student Awareness for the Associated Students, founding member of the Chapman chapter of Pi Sigma Alpha Political Science Honors Society, and a founding member of Students for Peaceful Empowerment, Action, and Knowledge. In Joshua's spare time he enjoys traveling, watching sports and performing community service.
   Chris Scott, son of Connie and Carven Scott, is a graduate of Bartlett High School. He attends Stanford University in California where he is majoring in International Relations. At Stanford, Chris is involved in the running club, the ski team and Naval Reserve Officer Training Corps. Chris plans to be a commissioned officer in the United States Marine Corps after graduating. In his spare time he enjoys backpacking, sailing, biking, and rafting.
   Stephen Wackowski is the son of Steve and Debbie Wackowski. He graduated in 2000 from Bartlett High School and is attending Saint Mary's College in Moraga, California, where he played football. He is a double major in Computer Science and Political Science. Stephen is involved in the Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps program and upon graduation, he will be commissioned as a 2nd Lieutenant in the United States Air Force. During his high school he was class president and an Alaska state champion in the 110-meter hurdles. He spends his time skiing, running or enjoying outdoor activities.
   * Eagle River
   Tui Marie Bombeck, is the daughter of Cindy and Greg Bombeck and is a 2001 graduate of Lumen Christi High School. Tui is a student at the University of Dallas in Texas, majoring in Political Philosophy. She plans to graduate next year and wants to attend law school. Tui is involved in student government, Crusaders for Life and the Sumner Foundation. She also plays on the University's soccer and lacrosse teams.
   * Fairbanks 
   Mark Farrell, son of Daniel and Donna Farrell, is a 2001 graduate of Ben Eielson High School. Mark served on the Fairbanks Northstar Borough School District School Board and the Alaska Association of Student Governments. He now attends the University of Hawaii in Hilo, where he is majoring in Political Science and History. Mark helps run the school's radio station. After he graduates he plans to attend graduate school.
   Noelle Lyle is the daughter of Paul and Ruth Lyle and is a 2002 graduate of Lathrop High School. She is now attending Princeton University in Princeton, New Jersey majoring in Comparative Literature. Noelle plans on graduating in spring of 2006. In Noelle's spare time she enjoys managing the Ceramics Club, canoeing, and participating in Christian fellowship.
   * Juneau
   Staci Ignell is the daughter of Dave Ignell and Janet Rider. She is a former Stevens' high school intern and a 2003 graduate of Juneau-Douglas High School. She is currently a student at Miramar College in San Diego, California, majoring in Business with a minor in Marketing. During her four years of high school Staci was class president. She enjoys going to the beach and studying.
   * McGrath
   Rachael Dallin is the daughter of Norv and Phyllis Dallin and a 2000 graduate of McGrath High School. She is a recent graduate of Stanford University in Palo Alto, California, with a major in American Studies and a minor in Psychology. In college Rachael studied in Moscow and was a member of the Student Campaign for Child Survival. She also enjoys playing basketball and volleyball in her spare time. Next year Rachael will attend the J. Reuben Clark Law School at Brigham Young University in Provo, Utah. Rachael would like to be a child advocacy lawyer.
   Jillian Ladegard is the daughter of Karen and Paul Ladegard. She is a 2000 graduate of Niskayuna High School in New York and graduated this spring from Dartmouth College in Hanover, New Hampshire, with a major in Engineering. Jillian was a part of the marching band, and also conducting genetics and cancer research. Next year she begins seeking a Master's degree in Engineering from Dartmouth College.
   * Crofton, Maryland
   Krystle Howard, daughter of Dennis and Vicki Howard, graduated from Riverdale Baptist School in Upper Marlboro, Maryland in 2002. She is now a Communications major at Bowie State University in Bowie, Maryland. While in high school Krystle was the editor of the newsletter, assistant editor of the yearbook and was on the varsity cheerleading squad. She enjoys studying and spending time with friends and family.
   Contact: Courtney Schikora, 202/224-1028.
 
 