SEN. STEVENS COSPONSORS BILL TO ENCOURAGE TOURISM
  Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) has joined Sen. Daniel Inouye (D-Hawaii) and Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) as a cosponsor of the Travel Promotion Act of 2007. This legislation is designed to make fundamental changes to the way in which the United States is marketed to potential visitors.  
  "This legislation has a simple purpose: to increase the number of foreign tourists who visit America," said Senator Stevens. "The travel and tourism industry impacts every portion of Alaska's economy by providing jobs to our residents and increasing sales for our businesses. By encouraging international tourists to visit Alaska and the rest of the United States, the Travel Promotion Act will help a vital sector of our economy continue to grow."
  This measure would establish the Corporation for Travel Promotion, which will encourage international travelers to visit the United States. This Corporation would be led by a 14-member Board of Directors, appointed by the U.S. Secretary of Commerce. Members of the Board will have travel and tourism experience and represent various travel and tourism industries. The Board would be required to submit a marketing plan, budget, and annual objectives each year to the Secretary of Commerce, as well as an annual report to Congress. Private funding from a newly-established Travel Promotion Fund would be used to create the Corporation, and it would be sustained with funds from matching non-federal sources and fees obtained through an automated electronic traveler authorization system.
  The bill would also establish an Office of Travel Promotion in the Department of Commerce headed by the Under Secretary for Travel Promotion. The Under Secretary would work to improve entry procedures for international visitors and develop a plan to increase the number of foreign visitors to the United States. Finally, this bill would ensure that the Office of Travel and Tourism Industries expands its research activities aimed at promoting international travel to the United States.
  Ron Peck, the President of the Alaska Travel Industry Association, expressed his support for this type of legislation at a recent hearing held by the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation. Mr. Peck said that the cooperation promoted by this legislation would be "similar to Alaska's model that blends the marketing promotion expertise and flexibility of the private sector with oversight from the government" and that "such an effort could change misconceptions of the U.S.A., and bring more international visitors to America."
   Contact: Aaron Saunders, 202/224-1028; Steve Wackowski, 202/224-5122.  
 
 