SEN. STEVENS URGES SENATE ENERGY COMMITTEE TO APPROVE ALASKAN NOMINEES
  During a Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee confirmation hearing today, Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) urged his colleagues to confirm two Alaskan nominees, Drue Pearce and Mark Myers. President Bush has nominated Pearce to be the Federal Coordinator for Alaska Natural Gas Transportation Projects and Myers to be the Director of the U.S. Geological Survey.  
   A graduate of Indiana University with a Masters in Public Administration from Harvard, Pearce first moved to Alaska in 1977 to work for the Alaska National Bank of the North. She was elected to the Alaska State House in 1984 and to the State Senate in 1988, where she served two terms as Senate President. In 2001, Pearce resigned her Senate seat to become the Secretary of the Interior's Senior Advisor for Alaska Affairs. Pearce advises the Secretary on policies affecting Alaska and serves as the policy coordinator for the Department's efforts related to the permitting and construction of the Alaska Natural Gas Pipeline. 
   In introducing Pearce to the Committee, Senator Stevens said, "Alaskans - and all Americans - need this project. We are very pleased that Drue is willing to take on this task. The stakes involved in this project are very high; the timely completion of this project is essential to this country and to our state." Stevens later added, "Moving this gas pipeline forward will require the coordination of federal, state, local, and private entities. I trust Drue Pearce to get the job done." 
   Senator Stevens also introduced Mark Myers at today's hearing. From 1990 to 1998, Myers was a petroleum geologist for the State of Alaska Division of Oil and Gas. He became Director of the Division in 2001 and was named Alaska State Geologist and Director of the State Division of Geological and Geophysical Surveys in 2005. Myers earned his B.S. and M.A. degrees in geology from the University of Wisconsin-Madison and his Ph.D. in geology from the University of Alaska Fairbanks. 
   Stevens praised Myers' work in the field of gas hydrates. He told the Committee that Myers' expertise in this area will be essential as private companies and the federal government explore ways to commercialize gas hydrates trapped beneath Alaska's permafrost. 
   "Mark has worked with the State Legislature on this issue. He has advised us on this issue. He's testified before Congress, even before your Committee, on this issue. This is one of the true challenges for science in this country," said Senator Stevens. "This is unquestionably why he's an excellent candidate for this job, because he knows this issue well. I look forward to working with him, and I'm sure this Committee will look forward to working with him." 
   The Energy and Natural Resources Committee is scheduled to vote on these nominations on Wednesday, July 26 at 10 a.m..
 
 