SEN. STEVENS' HIGH SCHOOL SUMMER INTERN PROGRAM UNDERWAY
  Recent Alaska high school graduates participating in Sen. Ted Stevens' Intern Program have arrived in Washington, D.C. Stevens selected Alaska students from Anchorage, Atmaultluak, Craig, Eagle River, Fairbanks, Galena and Kenai to participate in the program, which provides first-hand experience working in the federal government through various legislative projects and assignments.  
   In its 37th year, Senator Stevens' intern program is one of the most intensive in the Senate. Duties include assisting staff with legislation, archiving, researching legislative topics, and assisting with day-to-day office administration. The length of the internship is four weeks. The following are the interns participating in this year's program, according to region:
   Anchorage:
   Cheyene Alabanzas is a Bartlett High School graduate and the daughter of Roy and Theresa Alabanzas. This fall she has plans to attend the University of Alaska Anchorage to study electrical engineering. In her free time Cheyene is a member of the Alaska Youth for Environmental Action. 
   Christopher Jay, son of Christopher and Mardra Jay, is a recent graduate of Culver Academies in Culver, Indiana, where he was captain of the Culver Rowing Team. He intends to major in international business at Seattle University this fall. 
   Nicholas Wells, son of Dr. Timothy and Guia Wells, is a recent graduate of Dimond High School. Nicholas was a member of student government. This fall he will be attending Harvard and plans to major in business.
   Atmautluak
   Nathanial Betz, son of Walter and Elizabeth Betz, graduated from JoAnn A. Alexie Memorial School. He enjoys flying in his spare time and plans to major in political science or history this fall at Colby College in Maine. 
   Craig
   Stefanie Claus is the daughter of Robert and Deanna Clause. She is a recent Craig High School graduate, where she participated in Academic Decathlon. Stafanie will be attending Georgetown University in the fall.
   Eagle River
   Mariel Fonteyn, daughter of Phil and Josie Fonteyn, recently graduated from Chugiak High School. During her free time she volunteered in a third grade class at Alpenglow Elementary School. This fall Mariel is planning to study international affairs at the University of Alaska Anchorage.
   Fairbanks
   Nikolai O'Connor, son of Sandra O'Connor, is a recent West Valley High School graduate. While at West Valley High, he participated in a school production of A Midsummer Night's Dream. This fall he will attend Northern Arizona University where he plans to major in international relations and economics. 
   Galena
   Allison Huntington is the daughter of Gilbert and Margaret Huntington. She graduated from Galena City High School, where she was a four year member of student government. Allison will be majoring in accounting at the University of Alaska Anchorage this fall.
   Kenai
   Lydia Link, a recent Kenai Central High School graduate, is the daughter of Mildred and Jonathan Link. In 2004 she was chosen to participate in the American Choral Directors Association All-Northwest Choir. This fall Lydia plans on attending Willamette University.
   Paul Siler Morin is the son of Phillip and Christine Morin and recently graduated from Nikiski High School. During high school he won second place in the high school policy debate for the state of Alaska. He will attend Patrick Henry College this fall and is planning to major in government.
   Contact: Courtney Schikora Boone, 202/224-1028.
 
 