ON RECORD: SEN. STEVENS' STATEMENTS DURING WEEK OF MAY 21
  On his support for Congress extending the Internet Tax Moratorium
  "Thanks to the Internet, more goods and services are sold in Alaska every day, and Alaskans are able to market their goods to customers in the Lower 48?..Additionally, broadband access has eliminated distance barriers for education and medicine. To ensure those benefits continue to reach as many Americans as possible, Congress should reduce any obstacles to Internet access. One way to do that is to prevent federal, state and local taxes that drive up costs for Internet access. During the period of the imposition of the Moratorium from 1998 to now, there has been tremendous investment, growth and innovation in broadband deployment and I hope this continues." (5/23/07)  
   On ending 28 years of litigation on the Tongass Land Management Plan
  "There is a second generation of lawyers (who) are rich. All of the timber people are going bankrupt. Now we have to stop the litigation over that plan somehow. I'm going to offer such an amendment. There ought not be another challenge to this plan." (5/22/07)
  On extreme partisanship in Washington, D.C. 
   "Things have changed a great deal since I came here. Not every change has been an improvement. As a matter of fact, it is to the contrary. Party divisions have increased dramatically, and as I've said before, the aisle between the parties on the floor of the Senate is a canyon. It is dangerous and difficult to cross. When you look at it, extreme partisanship is really the game of the day, and it prevents us from making progress on things we should do for our nation." (5/22/07)
  On the Senate's bipartisan immigration reform bill
   "Illegal immigration has plagued our nation for a long time. This issue really deeply divides elected officials and our constituents. There's no question, however, that this issue has to be solved. We've tried to resolve it time and time again. This agreement that is before us is not perfect? but we have an obligation to get it done." (5/22/07)
   Contact: Aaron Saunders, 202/224-1028; Steve Wackowski, 202/224-5122. 
 
 