SEN. STEVENS STRESSES NEED FOR INNOVATION IN PROTECTING AMERICA FROM TERRORIST ATTACKS
  Today, during his keynote speech at the Christopher Columbus Fellowship Foundation's Fourth Annual Homeland Security Award ceremony, Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) highlighted the need for innovation in efforts to secure the nation against terrorist attacks.  
   "Innovation is absolutely essential if we are going to keep ahead of those who seek to do us harm," said Senator Stevens. "Almost every month someone comes forward with a new approach. Americans from every corner of our nation - security experts and ordinary citizens alike - they are thinking of new ways to help protect us and continue this staggering record of five years with no real security attack against us... Five years after September 11th, our security efforts continue to improve and we must ensure the momentum continues." 
   Senator Stevens later added, "We need every incentive for our people, who truly are ingenious, to think through problems associated with terrorist attacks. We must work on ways to prevent those attacks - and find ways to ensure more people survive if we are unable to prevent them." 
   Senator Stevens was the keynote speaker at a breakfast held in honor of Dr. Donna Branson, winner of the foundation's 2006 Homeland Security Award. Dr. Branson is a Regents Professor at Oklahoma State University and the Director of the Institute of Protective Apparel Research and Technology. From 2001 through 2004, she led the team of researchers that developed a liquid cooling garment/cooling unit for first responders. In 2004, Dr. Branson worked with her university colleagues, the military, and those in industry to develop QuadGard, an innovative body protection system. Weighing only 10 pounds, this system protects soldiers' arms and legs against devastating injuries caused by shrapnel from improvised explosive devices. QuadGard is currently used by approximately 5,000 soldiers in Iraq. 
   The Christopher Columbus Fellowship Foundation is an independent federal government agency that seeks to nurture and recognize individuals and programs which reflect the visionary spirit and pioneer heritage of Christopher Columbus. One way the foundation accomplishes these goals is through its annual Homeland Security Award, which is given to an American individual or company that has significantly contributed to research related to homeland security.
 
 