SEN. STEVENS URGES SENATE TO REAUTHORIZE THE INDIAN HEALTH CARE IMPROVEMENT ACT
  Senator Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) today spoke in support of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act (S. 1200), which would improve Alaska Natives' access to health care and patient resources.
   The Indian Health Care Act, which first passed Congress in 1976 and serves as the primary authorizing measure for the Indian Health Service (IHS), has not been renewed in 15 years. According to the National Congress of American Indians, the full Senate has not debated Native American-specific legislation on a stand alone basis in decades.
   "I believe much has been done in the last decade. Alaska now has the best Native health care system in the entire country," said Senator Stevens. "The reason for that, in my judgment, is that the system is run by the Alaska Native people themselves who have shaped it to fit their own needs. But Alaska Native health leaders from across my state have told me, again and again, that they believe that this legislation needs to be passed because it contains new provisions to aid delivery of health care to Indian people." 
   This bill reauthorizes IHS programs through 2017 to address the lack of basic health care services, doctors, and trained professionals many Alaska Natives face. S. 1200 would also modernize the health care delivery system of Native peoples and extend additional coverage under Medicare, Medicaid, and the State Children's Health Insurance Program to Alaska Natives.
   "The Alaska Native Health System has been innovative and pioneered access to and delivery of health services to the Alaska Native people, yet huge disparities continue to exist," said Senator Stevens. "This bill needs to be passed and funding increased to address these health disparities to save and improve lives in Alaska and to reduce the cost of health care throughout our area and Indian country."
   Below is a full transcript of Senator Stevens' remarks, as delivered:
   "I rise today to speak in support of my colleague, Senator (Lisa) Murkowski and explain my strong support for the passage of S. 1200, which will reauthorize the Indian Health Care Improvement Act.
   "It has been 15 years since the Indian Health Care Act was reauthorized, and almost 10 years during which reauthorization bills were introduced here in the Congress but received no action.
   "Great advances in the models for delivery of health care have occurred during this time, which need to be incorporated into the Indian health care system. This bill does just that. The health needs of Alaska Natives in our state and American Indians throughout the country continue to grow. It is important to pass this bill.
   "Ten years ago the Alaska Native Medical Center in Anchorage opened. It is the only tertiary care hospital in the Indian Health System. At the same time, we created the Alaska Native Tribal Health Consortium, and Alaska Natives took over management of the entire Native health system in our state.
   "I believe much has been done in the last decade. Alaska now has the best Native health care system in the entire country. The reason for that, in my judgment, is that the system is run by the Alaska Native people themselves who have shaped it to fit their own needs. But Alaska Native health leaders from across my state have told me again and again that they believe that this legislation needs to be passed because it contains new provisions to aid delivery of health care to Indian people. This bill is important to continue their work, this very important work.
   "The Indian Health Care Improvement Act is a comprehensive bill; every aspect of what it takes to provide a true system of care to Alaska Natives and American Indians is in this bill. The health status of Alaska Natives and American Indians is poorer than that of the average American. Many of our people live in remote communities with little economic base, high unemployment rates, and low income levels. These conditions create a 'perfect storm' of health care obstacles for Alaska Natives.
   "These people must travel farther than others throughout our country to receive health care services. They are less healthy than the average American, and they have more medical issues that they face because of the circumstances in which they live.
   "In Alaska many communities are not served by roads. For instance, a pregnant woman living in Adak, which is way out on the Aleutian chain and almost 1,200 miles from Anchorage, must travel by air to deliver her child. She must travel to Anchorage to do that. As she does, she will have flown more than five hours, and she will be flying on a plane that is available only two to three days a week. As almost everywhere in Alaska, the weather conditions are a really great problem and can delay such a trip for a week or more. Of course, all of these concepts increase the cost of health care, but it is the availability of health care that counts. It is really difficult for our people to get to the areas where health care can be provided to them.
   "This Alaska Native Tribal Health Consortium and the Regional Native Health Organizations have worked hard to improve the health status of our Native people. Rates for diseases, such as tuberculosis, have dropped dramatically as we have improved access to health care. Basic public health measures, such as childhood vaccinations and installation water and sewer systems in rural Alaska, have also improved our health care. Between 1950 and 2007, Alaska Native life expectancy rose from 46 years to 64 years of age. Those are improvements brought about by health care.
   "However, in Alaska, as in other parts of the country with Indian populations, many infectious diseases have decreased, but other health problems have taken the place of those that we've eliminated. Respiratory illness outbreaks threaten the lives of babies and toddlers and fill our hospital beds in the Yukon-Kuskokwim area of our state every winter. And, non-infectious conditions, like suicide, violent injury, and intentional injury still plague Alaska Natives at high rates. As their population ages, rates of cancer, heart disease, and diabetes threaten the gains we've made in life expectancy.
   "The Alaska Native Health System has been innovative and pioneered access to and delivery of health services to the Alaska Native people, yet huge disparities continue to exist. This bill needs to be passed and funding increased to address these health disparities to save and improve lives in Alaska and to reduce the cost of health care throughout our area and Indian country.
   "Title I of this Indian health care bill provides support for Native people to receive training as health workers. Each year, Alaska Natives and American Indians complete their education, supported in part by programs authorized under Title I, and return back to their homes to take positions as nurses, doctors, social workers, behavioral health specialists and administrators all to improve the health care system.
   "The Alaska Community Health Aide Program (CHA) is an important example, an outstanding example of innovation in the delivery of health care in remote communities. When I came to the Senate there was hardly any health care in our Alaska villages. They received their health care from the wife or spouse of the superintendent of the Indian school, Native school, calling into Anchorage at one central hospital. There were no health aides - we created and pioneered the concept of community health aides.
   "Through the many years since that time, Alaska Native health leaders worked with the Indian Health Service to train community members to provide tuberculosis treatment during epidemics. The program has grown so that there are now more than 500 community health aides with all levels of health care in over 178 remote villages where there's no other type of health care provider. Recently, the community health aide program was expanded by the Alaska Native Health System to include specially trained behavioral and dental health aides to expand the services available to our people living in villages.
   "And today, Alaska's telemedicine system, with installations in 235 sites throughout Alaska, allows community health aides to have direct access to physicians and dentists in regional hub hospitals and in Anchorage and Fairbanks. They can use telemedicine to contact Outside specialists in the various clinics throughout the country who can assist them.
   "Let me just speak of a few of these people. Jennifer Kalmakof, a community health aide from Chignik Lake, is an example of how important these aides are in their communities. Jennifer won the 2007 Vaccinate Alaska Coalition's 'Excellence in Immunization' Award, presented to her at the Alaska Public Health Summit this past December. She made it her mission to increase, improve, and maintain immunizations at the local level. She started her own system to keep track of infants, children, elders, and adults, using her own money to buy tackle boxes in which she organized the clinic vaccines and kept them in her own refrigerator. She pioneered keeping track of the type of assistance these people need, in terms of immunizations and vaccinations.
   "Title II of the bill addresses the range of services authorized, recognizing the change that has already occurred in our non-Native health system, where the emphasis has shifted from hospital care to home and community-based care - such is provided by the young woman I mentioned - especially for long-term care services. All Alaska Natives need to have access to these home-based services, and some assisted living and nursing homes that recognize the cultural needs of Alaska Native elders also need to be available.
   "Title III of the bill addresses safe water and sanitation needs. There continues to be an enormous unmet need for investment in safe water and sanitation systems in Alaska Native communities. Currently 26 percent of rural Alaska Native homes lack adequate water and waste water facilities.
   "For instance, Andrew Dock lives with his large family in Kipnuk, Alaska. In his household there are two adults, six boys and three girls. The youngest child is one and the oldest is 22. There is no piped in water in this village, not even central watering facilities. In the winter, water is obtained by chopping ice from tundra ponds with a steel ice pick and hauling it to his home in three 30-gallon gray garbage cans in a sled pulled by a snowmachine. In the summer, he obtains water by collecting rainwater from domestic rooftops. It is also possible to haul water from a lake at Tern Mountain, which is a 13-mile boat trip. Hauling water is a daily chore - one to three trips per day - to support drinking and cooking and washing clothes. He hauls over 1,000 gallons of water per week to keep safe water for the Dock household.
   "In Kipnuk, sanitation is accomplished by five-gallon 'honey buckets' in each home. I know that Senator Murkowski has talked about honey buckets here. These are self-hauled twice a day through the living space of a family to be deposited in a collection hopper nearby. These buckets must be emptied into another bucket when they become too full to carry without spilling in the home.
   "I'll close by saying, Mr. President, that this is a very important bill to our state. It is a very important bill to the Alaska Native people, to the American Indian people, and I think it should be enacted quickly."
   Contact: Aaron Saunders, 202/224-1028; Steve Wackowski, 202/224-5122.
 
 