ON RECORD: SEN. STEVENS' STATEMENTS DURING WEEK OF JUNE 18
  On limiting litigation of the Tongass Land Management Plan
   "How many times should they be able to go to the court and through the Forest Service's administrative process? They have done it for 10 years and still the same 676,000 out of 17 million acres is available for harvest, and these people (in Southeast Alaska) have been denied the right to have a lifestyle because one small group of financers from outside of our state. There's just no reason for this continued defeat of the process we agreed to in the Tongass Timber Reform Act by a small group of lawyers who are going to retire off this case." (6/21/07) 
  Senator Ted Stevens reached an agreement yesterday with Senator Diane Feinstein (D-Calif.) to work out a bipartisan compromise that would limit the timeframe in which lawsuits could be filed against the Tongass Land Management Plan in the FY2008 Interior Appropriations Bill. 
  On introducing the Family Leave Insurance Act
   "Our legislation would provide eight weeks of paid benefits to private and federal employees who take leave for reasons permitted by the FMLA (Family Medical Leave Act). These include a serious health condition; care for a critically ill child, spouse, or parent; and the birth or adoption of a child?.Benefits would be provided to workers based on their annual income level. As an example, those earning less than $20,000 per year would receive 100 percent of their benefits, while those earning $60,000 to $97,000 would receive 40 percent. This scaled approach has two advantages: it will keep program costs low, and offer the greatest help to those who need it most." (6/20/07)
  On how domestic energy production and increasing CAFE standards must be part of an overall U.S. energy policy
   "It is obvious our production is declining every year, in terms of domestic production. I feel that we need to replace that, but we cannot do that until we demonstrate that we are willing to go into the concept of using alternative fuels and technologies." (6/22/07) 
  On the 30th anniversary of the Trans-Alaska Pipeline System
   "During the long political fight to allow this important project to proceed, members of the environmental lobby claimed the pipeline would devastate Alaska. History has proven these critics wrong - responsible development and attentive stewardship have ensured the continued protection of our state's wildlife and lands. The revenues generated by this production have had a tremendous impact in Alaska and throughout the United States?.Over the past thirty years, North Slope oil production has added more than $300 billion to the U.S. economy and reduced domestic oil imports by more than $200 billion. Energy will always cost money, but instead of sending our dollars overseas, North Slope oil production - made possible by the Trans-Alaska Pipeline - has greatly contributed to economic growth here at home."
   Contact: Aaron Saunders, 202/224-1028; Steve Wackowski, 202/224-5122. 
 
 