NOAA RECOGNIZES SEN. STEVENS' EFFORTS TO PROTECT FISHERIES AND PROMOTE COASTAL CONSERVATION
  The NOAA on Wednesday, March 21, recognized the efforts of Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) to protect the nation's fisheries and promote coastal awareness and conservation. Vice Admiral Conrad C. Lautenbacher, the head of NOAA, praised Sen. Ted Stevens for his leadership and support of important oceans and coastal legislation as Chairman of the Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee last year. Lautenbacher specifically recognized the reauthorization of the Sens. Magnuson-Stevens Act, and the passage of bills to establish tsunami warning centers and to clean up marine debris that Congress approved last year.  
   "NOAA has a long and distinguished record in terms of ocean and coastal science in the United States," said Senator Stevens. "NOAA is especially critical to my state of Alaska, because we have half the coastline of the U.S. and the largest portion of commercial fishing takes place within our waters. We eat, sleep and breathe NOAA."
   Stevens noted that the Magnuson-Stevens Act reauthorization was signed into law on January 12, 2007, and that it contains new provisions designed to strengthen international fisheries management by requiring the United States to seek international action to eliminate illegal, unregulated, and unreported (IUU) fishing. The Magnuson-Stevens Act also authorizes the U.S. Secretary of the Treasury to implement economic sanctions on those nations engaging in IUU foreign fishing practices.
   "One of the things we are pursuing that I hope NOAA will support is to end illegal, unregulated, and unreported fishing," Senator Stevens said. "There are those out there who are operating without sound science. I am worried about the salmon runs and king crab that disappear because of IUU fishing. This is something the world has to come to grips with. I hope that NOAA will join us in dealing with IUU fishing in the years to come.".
   Contact: Aaron Saunders, 202/224-1028; Steve Wackowski, 202/224-5122.   
 
 