SEN. STEVENS EXPRESSES CONCERN OVER ADMINISTRATION'S BUDGET FOR FOREST SERVICE PROGRAMS IN ALASKA
  At today's Senate Appropriations Committee hearing on Fiscal Year 2008 funding for the U.S. Forest Service, Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) expressed concern about the Bush Administration's proposed budget cuts for many programs in Alaska.  
  "I'm disturbed as I look at this budget and realize how far the Forest Service has come from being a manager of harvesting timber to a fire department," said Senator Stevens during his opening statement. "When I came to the Senate the Forest Service managed the harvest of 1.5 billion board feet a year from Alaska. Last year it was only 50 million. We have two of the largest forests in the United States and they are basically being neglected. They are being neglected because of the pressures you face from the extremists who believe these forests should be turned into National Parks."
  The President's proposed budget would cut funding for a variety of U.S. Forest Service programs in Alaska, including State & Private Forestry, the National Forest System, and Capitol Improvement and Maintenance. The Administration's proposed budget would also phase out the Secure Rural Schools program. 
  During a question-and-answer session with Mark Rey, the Undersecretary of Agriculture for Natural Resources & Environment, Senator Stevens expressed concern about continued litigation of the Tongass Land Management Plan (TLMP) and encouraged the Forest Service to complete its TLMP amendment process this year. 
  "You have spent $40 million now to defend this plan over 10 years. The same lawyers are going to take you to court again," said Senator Stevens. "Meanwhile, we have 32 different communities in Southeastern Alaska that depend upon timber harvests. But they can't do it. All the timber companies are going to collapse and fail if this goes to court again. Isn't it time now to say no more appeal of this?"
  Mr. Rey agreed with Senator Stevens' statement and later vowed to support an attempt to end litigation on the TLMP. 
  "We've been working on the Tongass plan since 1979," said Mr. Rey. "There are Forest Service employees who have started their career and retired before we completed a Tongass Land Management Plan. I will commit to you that we will produce a Tongass Land Management Plan this fall which will be the best plan the Forest Service can produce."
   Contact: Aaron Saunders, 202/224-1028; Steve Wackowski, 202/224-5122. 
 
 