SEN. STEVENS RECEIVES FAITH AND FREEDOM AWARD FROM NATIONAL RELIGIOUS BROADCASTERS
  Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) received the National Religious Broadcasters' Faith and Freedom Award this week for his work as Chairman of the Senate Commerce Committee and his support of broadcasting freedom. 
   Excerpts of Senator Stevens' acceptance speech appear below: 
   "My great friend Mr. Don Nelson literally drove down here every year, and he would come spend some time with us. But he really was a grand man?  
   "?When you deal with the problems of society, we need to recognize a fundamental truth in this country, and that is that in this country the important lessons in life are learned in the family. And the framers of our Constitution understood that. 
   "We firmly believe that our democracy and freedom are taught to us by our nation's parents. The family is where we learn right from wrong and where our values really take root, and it's where we get our basic religious values also. The importance of family was ingrained by the framers of our Constitution, and you've just heard it. I'll read it again. The First Amendment to our Constitution says, 'Congress shall make no laws respecting an establishment of religion or prohibiting the free exercise thereof?' Now, that amendment enabled our country to pursue family-based values and to approach our beliefs with those values. I believe one of the chief duties of government is to ensure the family is protected, and those of us elected to serve must seek to find ways to assure that the faith that families create is not destroyed or that the people who are trying to destroy those faiths do not destroy the ability of the parents to teach their children what they want them to learn. 
   "My colleagues on the Commerce Committee and I have tried to fulfill this duty in connection with our work, particularly in the communications field. When Senator Inouye and I first became co-chairmen - and we are co-chairmen because we've worked together so long. We are of the same generation, and we have similar values. We are, I think, the only co-chairmen in the Senate. But several groups approached us, and they were concerned about decency in media content. It became apparent to us that any attempt to deal with this issue would require that we listen to family and faith-based institutions, to the broadcast industry, to cable and satellite providers, and to the leadership and advice of industry leaders and children's groups, anyone that was interested in the subject. 
   "So, in November of 2005, we began a process of bringing each of these groups together. We convened an open forum on decency and held hearings on the subject. In all, more than 30 groups and individuals shared their concerns and insights with us and members of the Committee who joined us. That dialogue enabled us to make significant progress, I feel. 
   "Several cable providers have now established family tiers. One of the views I shared with the cable and satellite industries was that religious programs like the Trinity Broadcasting Network should be part of the effort, and I'm pleased many companies chose to include religious programs in their family tiers. 
   "We believe parents now have greater access to a variety of programs, and they have greater control over the programs that enter their homes and enter into the areas where their children watch television and listen to the radios. By using blocking technologies, in terms of television, they can filter out content which conflicts with the belief they seek to pass on to their children. While these blocking mechanisms are widely available, we've learned that many parents did not know how to use them. Surveys showed that only three percent of Americans knew how to use the V-chip, which every American pays for as they buy a new television. We have really undertaken an educational program to try and overcome this challenge. The media industries have joined forces to assist parents in this regard. They've launched a $300 million advertising campaign, which teaches parents how to use blocking technologies and monitor the television programs their children view? 
   "?Our feeling is that government should not be in the business of choosing which programs are appropriate for children. We are in the business of protecting our nation's families and letting them make the decisions about what they feel their children should watch. By enabling the public to use the blocking mechanisms, we have ensured that parents, those in the best position to make the viewing decisions, are able to block programs they do not want in their home. It's going to take time for these initiatives to take hold in a marketplace. The mechanisms will be there. The question is, will they be used? 
   "In the meantime, our Committee is working on other issues that are vital to your industry. Our communications bill reinstates the FCC's broadcast flag rules. Those rules will ensure that your content is not stolen and sent over the Internet without your permission or altered in any way by people you do not give permission to. You will still have the option to widely distribute your programs, but the choice will be up to you. It will not be made for you, and it will not be made by government. 
   "Our bill also ensures there will be a place for those in your organization in emerging communications mediums like the Internet. In large part, our bill preserves how the Internet works today. With the protections that exist today, your industry, religious broadcasting, has flourished, and we believe the Internet will continue to offer your members new opportunities to expand the ways that you deliver your messages. 
   "Our legislation also includes an Internet Consumer Bill of Rights, which prohibits network operators from blocking access to religious sites or material. There is a provision which specifically applies the First Amendment to network operators. Under this provision, telephone companies and cable systems cannot block religious programs because they do not agree with the views expressed. 
   "The prospects for our bill are improving. Our Senate leadership has stated we must have 60 votes in order to bring the bill before the floor for debate. I talked to our leader today about a way to try to determine whether we can limit debate, which is a cloture-type procedure, and we want to try and see if we can have that be initiated next week so that when we come back after the election, we will take up our bill? 
   "Parents now have a wider variety of programming to choose from and greater control over whether those programs enter their homes. Those on our Committee will continue to pursue these types of initiatives, and we look forward to working with you in our efforts and hearing any other suggestions you might have? 
   "?I want to thank your groups. Most of your groups have supported our bill, and we welcome that support. And I do thank you for the honor to be with you tonight and to receive this wonderful award. Thank you very much.".
 
 