SEN. STEVENS URGES SENATE TO PASS COMPETITIVENESS LEGISLATION
  Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) today spoke on the Senate floor in support of the America COMPETES Act (S.761), which would increase American investment in basic research and improve the teaching of math, science, and engineering. Sen. Ted Stevens is an original cosponsor of this bipartisan legislation.  
  "Educating the next generation of American innovators must be a priority for this Congress," said Senator Stevens. "Our nation is at the crossroads, and the decisions we make today will affect us for decades to come. This bill, if enacted, will reaffirm our commitment to America's economic future." 
  The America COMPETES Act, which is co-sponsored by 56 Senators including Senator Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska), focuses on three areas critical to maintaining and improving U.S. innovation and competitiveness in the 21st century: (1) increasing investment in basic research; (2) strengthening educational opportunities in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics from elementary through graduate school; and (3) developing an innovation infrastructure. 
  "If we're to maintain our competitive edge, we must improve the education our students receive in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics," said Senator Stevens. "We must equip our teachers with the tools and resources they need. And we must encourage those who study in America to stay in America. This legislation we now consider is a tremendous step forward in these efforts. S. 761 seeks to ensure our nation remains the global leader in innovation." 
  S. 761 is the legislative response to recommendations contained in the National Academies' "Rising Above the Gathering Storm" report and the Council on Competitiveness' "Innovate America" report. The America COMPETES Act is the result of bipartisan cooperation between three committees - Commerce; Energy; and Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
   Contact: Aaron Saunders, 202/224-1028; Steve Wackowski, 202/224-5122.   
 
 