SEN. STEVENS ENCOURAGES AIR TRAVELERS TO OBTAIN PASSPORTS
  As new security requirements go into effect, Sen. Ted Stevens on Tuesday, Jan. 23, urged Alaskans who plan to fly between the United States and neighboring countries to obtain passports. Beginning today, the Department of Homeland Security will require a passport for non-military air travelers flying between the United States and Canada, Mexico, or the Caribbean.  
   "Implementing these new passport requirements for air travelers is an important step in increasing our national security," said Senator Stevens. "This added layer of air security will help prevent terrorists from entering the United States through our nation's airports." 
   Through Senator Stevens' work on the Fiscal Year 2007 Homeland Security Appropriations bill, the new passport requirement will only affect air travelers, and not those traveling by land and sea. Last September, the U.S. Congress passed legislation with a provision authored by Senator Stevens and Senator Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) that extended the implementation deadline for the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative (WHTI). The WHTI requires all U.S. citizens to present a passport or other accepted secure document when entering the United States. 
   The original land and sea implementation deadline for the WHTI was January 1, 2008. Due to concerns about whether the DHS and the Department of State could implement passcard technology infrastructure and accomplish other important activities within this timeframe, Senator Stevens and Senator Leahy worked with their colleagues to extend this deadline. The new deadline, June 1, 2009, gives the departments additional time and ensures the WHTI will not adversely impact Alaskans and those traveling to and from the state by land and sea. 
   "Given the vast numbers of travelers who come to Alaska by cruise ship and motor vehicle through Canada, we must make sure the new security guidelines for land and sea have been properly tested and implemented," said Senator Stevens. "Hasty implementation of these passport requirements could have disproportionately affected Alaska and directly impacted the State's economy, particularly our tourism industry." 
   For more information about obtaining a passport visit: http://travel.state.gov/passport.
 
 