SEN. STEVENS CO-SPONSORS BILL TO EXTEND VISA-FREE TRAVEL PRIVILEGES TO ALLIES IN WAR ON TERROR
  Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) has joined a bipartisan group of Senators and Congressmen in introducing the Secure Travel and Counterterrorism Partnership Act of 2007. This legislation would extend 90 day visa-free travel privileges to the allies of the United States in the War on Terror.  
   The Act would authorize the Department of Homeland Security, in consultation with the Department of State, to expand the Visa Waiver Program (VWP) by authorizing visa-free travel privileges for no more than five countries for a probationary period of three years. 
   The VWP was established in 1986 to improve relations with U.S. allies and benefit the U.S. economy. It permits nationals from selected countries to enter the United States without a visa for tourism or business for up to 90 days. Twenty-seven countries currently participate in the program, although no new countries have been added since 1999. 
   "Including more countries in the Visa Waiver Program will benefit the United States and the countries helping our nation fight the War on Terror," said Senator Stevens. "This bill would also stimulate our State's economy by opening Alaska's doors to a greater number of tourists and business travelers from South Korea and Eastern Europe." 
   Countries would be eligible to participate in the VWP only after the executive branch certifies they do not pose a security or law enforcement threat to the United States. All participants eligible under this Act would be required to implement enhanced travel security requirements, negotiate new agreements on counterterrorism cooperation and critical information-sharing, and further demonstrate their close cooperation with the United States in combating terrorism. This legislation would also require the U.S. government to report to Congress on its plans for further enhancing security standards for existing VWP countries. 
   President Bush recently called on Congress to expand the VWP to other deserving nations, and has identified 13 "Road Map" countries as potential candidates for future participation. The "Road Map" countries are Bulgaria, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Estonia, Greece, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Malta, Poland, Romania, Slovakia and South Korea.
 
 