ON RECORD: SEN. STEVENS' STATEMENTS DURING WEEK OF MARCH 19
  On the FAA's proposal to increase fuel taxes on General Aviation
   "The idea of putting that kind of burden on General Aviation would collapse the basic local transportation system for cargo and for people (in Alaska). It is wrong. We're not going to support it." (3/19/07) 
  On interacting with war protesters  
  "We face protesters wherever we go. I was with Secretary (Robert) Gates when he stopped and talked to people for a while. He was the President of Texas A&M. He said that one of the things we have to do is listen, because (the protesters) must understand we understand them. But we cannot join them because of the security of this nation and because of the safety of our (troops) abroad." (3/19/07)
  On the importance of the gas pipeline to Alaska
   "It is imperative that all Alaskans look beyond the short term, and focus on what the gasline project means for our future. We should not ask what this project can do for us. Instead, we must know what it will do for our children, and for future generations of Alaskans. Developing our natural gas potential beyond the gas already produced and stored at Prudhoe Bay is a vital concern to those generations." (3/19/07)
  On the future of the Bush Administration's proposed aquaculture legislation 
  "The aquaculture bill, I think, will pass, and I think we'll be able to opt out at least to 200 miles. We may be able to take Alaska out entirely. That's what we're working on?.Both the Secretary (of Commerce) and the head of NOAA called me and told me that it was coming up. They said they knew that we didn't agree, but they said that they were going to listen. I was assured of their cooperation in finding a solution to Alaska's problems." (3/19/07)
  On Alaska's role in developing new energy technologies 
   "Our current energy challenges will be solved by a combination of energy initiatives, increased domestic production of petroleum, and the development of alternative sources of energy. These are all part of the broader solution, and we must find the appropriate balance between them. The future holds a staggering list of possibilities for new energy technologies. In my state alone, we are looking at harnessing ocean and tidal energy and utilizing wood waste to produce ethanol. Some of our fishermen are currently using fish oil to power their operations and Chena Hot Springs, outside Fairbanks, has harnessed energy from geothermal resources to power their resort." (3/20/07)
  On the importance of eliminating illegal, unreported, and unregulated fishing practices
   "I have spoken to Senator (Richard) Lugar and Senator (Joe) Biden about the Senate moving forward and trying to ratify the Law of the Sea Treaty. We need to do that and we need to, above all, find a way to eliminate the illegal, unreported, and unregulated fishing around the world. It is starting to harm those people who have scientific management within their 200-mile limit because these bandits just go outside the limit and every once and while come inside it. But very clearly, they are the ones destroying not only the habitat, but the basic migratory and anadromous fish stocks." (3/21/07)
   Contact: Aaron Saunders, 202/224-1028; Steve Wackowski, 202/224-5122. 
 
 