SEN. STEVENS INTRODUCES LEGISLATION TO COMBAT ILLEGAL, UNDERREPORTED, AND UNREGULATED FISHING
  Senator Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) today joined Senator Daniel Inouye (D-Hawaii) to introduce a bill to close the gaps in United States law that currently allow illegal, underreported, and unregulated (IUU) fish products to enter the country. The International Fisheries Stewardship and Enforcement Act of 2008 would strengthen United States' fisheries law enforcement programs and would assist developing countries with fisheries monitoring and enforcement. 
   "We must send a strong message to the world that fish products harvested through IUU fishing are not welcome in the United States," said Senator Stevens. "This measure will strengthen our ability to enforce fisheries laws and help other nations do the same. IUU fishing steals billions every year from those fishermen who obey the law. The U.S. and other nations that rely on sustainable fisheries for jobs and food must take a stand and say 'no more' to these fish pirates."
   IUU fishing accounts for nearly $9 billion annually. Currently, the United States has a limited patchwork of law enforcement provisions created through individual statutes that implement international fisheries agreements. Senator Stevens' bill introduced today would combat IUU fishing by consolidating those powers, increasing the fines and penalties for fisheries civil and criminal violations, clarifying the prosecutorial system, and harmonizing all related statutes.
   Senator Stevens noted that IUU harvests are in violation of established laws and treaties and lack any regulations or controls. Fish taken by IUU fishing are also not accounted for in official reporting. This undermines the science-based fisheries management promoted by the Magnuson-Stevens Act and embraced by other responsible fishing nations.
   This bill would create two key programs to combat IUU fishing. First, the International Fisheries Enforcement Program would extend law enforcement authorities across federal agencies and would authorize better coordination and resource sharing in investigations. Second, the International Fisheries Stewardship and Enforcement Act would establish an International Cooperation and Assistance Program to authorize assistance to developing countries on fisheries monitoring and enforcement.
   Last December, Senator Stevens included language in the Omnibus Appropriations Bill for Fiscal Year 2008 authorizing the Secretary of Commerce to maintain a list of foreign IUU fishing vessels and take appropriate actions against them. This 'blacklist' enables the America's fishing industry to avoid doing business with listed vessels. The International Fisheries Stewardship and Enforcement Act would make that vessel list permanent, as well as authorize the Secretary of the Treasury to block port access for such vessels.
   Contact: Aaron Saunders, 202/224-1028; Steve Wackowski, 202/224-5122.
 
 