SEN. STEVENS PRESSES CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERSS AT HEARING ON AIRLINE MERGERS
  Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska), Vice Chairman of the Senate Commerce Committee, on Wednesday, pressed witnesses about whether the potential merger between Delta Air Lines and U.S. Airways would affect air service to and from Alaska. He questioned executives who testified at the Committee's hearing entitled, "State of the Airline Industry: the Potential Impact of Airline Mergers and Industry Consolidation." This hearing addressed the economic health of the airline industry and what effects industry consolidation might have on consumers, including those in Alaska.  
   In a written statement Senator Stevens said, "I remain open to the idea of airline consolidation, if it leads to an improved economic health of the industry. If a merger makes business sense for the companies and the traveling public is not adversely impacted, I don't see why Congress should get involved." 
   Senator Stevens received conflicting responses when he asked witnesses how the potential Delta Air Lines-U.S. Airways merger may affect air service to Alaska. Both airlines currently offer seasonal service to Alaska, and U.S. Airways flies once a day between Phoenix and Anchorage year-round. 
   "I believe this merger will, of necessity, lead to loss of service opportunities, reductions in service," said Gerald Grinstein, Chief Executive Officer of Delta Air Lines. "If you believe that with the kind of debt this is going to have that you are not going to reduce your hubs, you're not going to reduce frequencies, you're not going to consolidate flights and reduce planes, you believe in Tinkerbell. It has to happen." 
   Doug Parker, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of U.S. Airways, replied: "This merger would not result in any change in service to Alaska. U.S. Airways flies to Alaska, as does Delta. We would have no intention of changing that, nor the routes that are served, including the codeshare that exists with Delta today within Alaska." 
   Senator Stevens said he will continue to monitor developments in the consolidation of the airline industry. If this or any other airline merger is proposed, the Senator said he will work with the U.S. Department of Transportation, the U.S. Department of Justice, and other relevant entities to ensure Alaskans and others traveling to and from the state are not adversely impacted.
 
 