COMMERCE COMMITTEE APPROVES SEN. STEVENS-SPONSORED ID THEFT BILL
  The Senate Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation has approved legislation championed by Senator Ted Stevens (R-Alaska), Vice Chairman of the Committee, which would help Americans combat identity theft.  
  During today's markup, the Commerce Committee unanimously passed the Identity Theft Prevention Act (S.1178), legislation that would strengthen information safeguards and ensure consumers are notified whenever their sensitive personal information is acquired without authorization. The bill would direct the Federal Trade Commission to enforce rules requiring all covered entities that handle sensitive personal information to develop, implement, and maintain appropriate safeguards to protect such information, and provide effective notice to consumers in the event of a breach. S. 1178 would also allow consumers to freeze their credit for a reasonable fee to protect themselves from identity theft. 
  "ID theft is a growing problem that plagues Americans in the far reaches of our nation and everywhere in between," said Senator Stevens. "Studies of identity theft show that Alaskans are particularly susceptible to this criminal activity. It is time for Congress to act. We must take steps to help people protect themselves. I urge the Senate to take up this bill, which has received broad bipartisan support, and pass it quickly."
  The Committee also approved the IP-Enabled Voice Communications and Public Safety Act (S. 428), which would require Internet telephone companies to offer enhanced 911 services to all subscribers. This legislation ensures that those using Voice-over Internet Protocol (VoIP) services can dial 911 during an emergency. The bill includes several amendments authored by Senator Stevens. These provisions are designed to ensure that the nation's laws are up-to-date with the new technologies that consumers are adopting at growing rates. Increasingly, subscribers in rural America are using VOIP and wireless technologies for communications. One of Senator Stevens' provisions requires a study to identify timetables for developing next generation 911 capability throughout the United States.
   Contact: Aaron Saunders, 202/224-1028; Steve Wackowski, 202/224-5122.
 
 