SEN. STEVENS CO-SPONSORS LEGISLATION TO RESTORE FEDERAL COMMITMENT TO RURAL SCHOOLS, COMMUNITIES
  Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) has co-sponsored the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self Determination Reauthorization Act of 2007, legislation that would restore funding for the critical "county payments" law for seven years. Sen. Ron Wyden (D-Ore.) introduced this bill along with Sen. Ted Stevens and a bipartisan group of West Coast Senators. It would reauthorize the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self Determination Act of 2000, which expired in September 2006.  
   The Secure Rural Schools and Community Self Determination Reauthorization Act of 2000 established a six-year payment formula for counties that receive revenue-sharing payments for lands owned by the United States Forest Service (USFS) and Bureau of Land Management (BLM). The formula established a stable source of revenue - also referred to as a safety net or "full payment amount" - which was used for education, roads, and county services in rural areas. 
   Forty-one states and Puerto Rico received funding under this Act before it expired. Alaska received approximately $9.3 million under this Act in Fiscal Year 2006. 
   "This legislation is critical to communities throughout Alaska and the rest of the United States. Our schools, in particular, will receive much needed funds to improve resources available to students and teachers." Stevens said. "The federal government has a responsibility to Americans whose communities' lands are owned by government. This legislation is especially critical to Alaska because more than two-thirds of our State is federal land." 
   Before the original law was passed in September 2000, many rural counties and boroughs received payments according to laws passed in 1908 and 1937. These laws specified that the government share 25 percent of USFS receipts and 50 percent of BLM receipts with counties in any state that hosts federal land from which timber is cut. Payments made as a result of these laws were used to help finance rural schools and roads. 
   In the 1990s, however, the principal source of revenue for those payments, federal timber sales, declined by over 70 percent nationwide. In Alaska, timber sale harvest levels from the Tongass National Forest have declined by 90 percent since 1990. Consequently, the corresponding revenues shared with rural counties throughout the country declined precipitously, hurting school and transportation funding.
 
 