REP. STEVENS SPEAKS IN SUPPORT OF DR. RICE'S NOMINATION
  Today Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) spoke on the Senate Floor in support of Dr. Condoleezza Rice's nomination to be Secretary of State. 
   Mr. President, I come to the floor today in support of Dr. Condoleezza Rice's nomination for Secretary of State.
   I first met Dr. Rice when she served as the Soviet and East European affairs advisor during the first Bush administration. Her reputation as an invaluable advisor was well-established even then. She helped guide that administration through the reunification of Germany, rebellion in the Balkans, and the collapse of the Soviet Union. 
   Philip Zelikow, who served with Dr. Rice on the National Security Council during this time and is the Executive Director of the National Commission on Terrorist Attacks stated: "She believes in empowering people. In international affairs, that means real commitment to liberty and freedom. She sees the message of her life as a message of how to realize a person's potential. No one should ever become the prisoner of other people's expectations."
   Dr. Rice returned to Stanford at the close of the first Bush administration. In 1993, she became the first female and non-white provost in the University's history. She was also the youngest.
   My daughter, Lily, graduated from Stanford in 2003, so I have a unique appreciation for Dr. Rice's accomplishments. During Dr. Rice's years as Provost she succeeded in restoring Stanford's financial position and engaged in one of her real passions: sports. She would regularly be seen cheering from the bleachers. I even saw her when Stanford beat UCLA, which was a terrible day. She's also been seen working out with the Stanford football team. Dr. Rice is a role model, especially for young women. During her time at Stanford she was loved by undergraduates and appreciated by faculty members. 
   Dr. Rice has had a profound impact on students across the nation. A political science major at nearby Howard University put it best, and I think put it best, said "She has opened the door for not only women but minorities in government and, hopefully, she [will] be a role model for women and minorities to achieve high, important positions in government."
   Dr. Rice is also capable of making tough decisions. Up to this point she's had mostly advisory roles in government, and she has served in that capacity with honor, dignity and unwavering dedication. It is those qualities, Mr. President - and her unsurpassed intellectual abilities - that prompted Forbes Magazine to name her the most powerful woman in the world last year. I believe she is entitled to that acclaim.
   Dr. Rice is a balanced genius in her own right. And, when the Senate confirms her nomination to become Secretary of State - as I believe it will and should - she will be the boss at the State Department. The nation could not be in better hands. Dr. Rice has my complete support. I look forward to working with her in her new role.
   Contact: Courtney Schikora Boone, 202/224-1028.
 
 