SENS. STEVENS, INOUYE INTRODUCE NATIONAL OCEAN EXPLORATION PROGRAM ACT
  Sens. Ted Stevens (R-AK) and Daniel Inouye (D-HI), the Chairman and Co-Chairman of the Senate Commerce Committee, today introduced the National Ocean Exploration Program Act (copy attached), which would establish a National Ocean Exploration Program within the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) in consultation with the National Science Foundation (NSF) and other appropriate agencies.  
   This legislation is virtually identical to a bill introduced last year by Senators Stevens and Inouye, which passed the Senate on November 16, 2004, but was not considered by the House of Representatives. And, it is consistent with recommendations included in the U.S. Commission on Ocean Policy's report issued last year.
   The bill would expand ocean exploration to discover new marine natural products that may have potential therapeutic benefits; create scientific missions to understand unique marine ecosystems, organisms and geology of the world's oceans; and maximize ocean research effectiveness by integrating multiple scientific disciplines in the ocean science community.
   "This bill brings a focus on remote ocean research and exploration, in particular, deep marine regions, specifically, hydrothermal vents communities and seamounts. More research on these areas, where organisms exist in highly toxic environments, may bring significant scientific and medical breakthroughs," said Stevens. 
   "By exploring the oceans and uncovering their fascinating secrets, I'm confident that we will inspire a new generation of marine scientists and managers," Senator Inouye added. "As we discover new scientific treasures, I'm hopeful that more young people will choose to return to their home states to work in marine-related fields, so that there will always be leaders who can balance scientific and management principles with the needs of those living in coastal communities."
   Specifically, the National Ocean Exploration Program Act would authorize the Secretary of Commerce to conduct interdisciplinary exploration voyages or other scientific activities to survey, inventory, observe, and assess little-known areas of the maritime environment; promote the development of oceanographic research; and, conduct public education and outreach activities that improve the public understanding of ocean science, resources, and processes.
   In addition, the legislation calls on NOAA to convene an ocean technology and infrastructure task force to develop and implement a strategy to facilitate the transfer of new exploration technologies; improve the availability of communications infrastructure (including satellite); develop a data management information processing system for information obtained under the Program; and encourage cost-sharing partnerships to assist in transferring exploration technology and technical expertise.
   The bill would authorize $45 million each year from 2006 to 2012, and $55 million each year from 2012 to 2017.
   Contact: Melanie Alvord, 202/224-8456; Andy Davis, 202/224-4546.
 
 