SEN. STEVENS INTRODUCES MEASURE TO IMPROVE EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS
  Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) has joined Senate Commerce Committee Chairman Sen.Daniel K. Inouye (D-Hawaii) in introducing the Interoperable Emergency Communications Act. This legislation would provide the National Telecommunications and Information Administration with more guidance as it awards $1 billion in interoperable emergency communications grants to police, firemen, and emergency medical personnel, including those in Alaska.  
   This bill would allow up to $100 million of the expedited $1 billion to be used to establish technology reserves that would assist emergency response agencies in pre-positioning communications equipment in states or regional facilities. These reserves can be activated quickly in the event of a major emergency or natural disaster. The bill requires a portion of this new $100 million Federal Technology Reserve to be used in Alaska to support federal emergency response. 
   "In the aftermath of the tragic events of September 11, we learned the importance of emergency communications," said Senator Stevens. "In Alaska, we must be prepared for other types of crises as well, including earthquakes, tsunamis, and volcanic eruptions. An essential step in this preparation is providing our public safety officials with the communications equipment they need during emergencies. This legislation also marks the continuation of important public safety efforts advanced by our Committee during the last Congress." 
   "Every day we hear about potential threats against our nation and it will not be long until we are again in the midst of hurricane season," said Senator Inouye. "The Congress must act quickly to give our first responders the tools they need to effectively do their jobs." 
   This legislation would not interfere with the September 30, 2007 deadline set by Congress for distribution of the $1 billion of interoperable communications grants. The September 30, 2007 deadline was mandated by the Call Home Act, which became public law on December 22, 2006.
 
 