SEN. STEVENS CHAMPIONS FUEL ECONOMY PROVISIONS IN SENATE-PASSED ENERGY BILL
  Late last night the U.S. Senate passed energy legislation (H.R 6) that featured a key amendment authored by Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) to reform fuel economy (CAFE) standards for automobiles. Despite his support of the CAFE provisions and his vote for the overall bill, Sen. Ted Stevens expressed concern that Congress had once again failed to address America's need for increased domestic energy production. 
  "Our nation stands at a crossroads in our history," said Senator Stevens. "The United States faces an energy crisis, but we find ourselves trapped in a vicious cycle which will only make its consequences more severe. While America is blessed with enormous natural resource potential, inconsistent government policies discourage their exploration and development. These policies have been - and will continue to be - detrimental to our national security and long-term economic health. The time has come for those of us in Congress to make the difficult energy policy decisions that will serve to benefit future generations. The only way our country will achieve energy independence is through improved fuel efficiency, increased domestic production, and the development of alternative fuels and renewable energy technologies. One initiative without the others will not achieve America's overall energy objective."
  The bipartisan compromise on CAFE standards was struck after weeks of negotiation. The agreement, which was spearheaded by Senator Stevens, would raise the fleet-wide average fuel economy standards for all passenger vehicles to 35 miles per gallon by Model Year 2020. Current fuel efficiency standards for these vehicles are 27.5 miles per gallon and 22.2 miles per gallon for light trucks (see attached document for details on the bill's CAFE provisions).
  "Our compromise takes a progressive approach that gets away from the traditional corporate average program," said Senator Stevens. "Instead, our amendment would allow the Secretary of Transportation to require the entire U.S. fleet to meet on average 35 miles per gallon. To do this, we create a system that allows manufacturers to produce vehicles for consumers rather than the program. This is a win for consumers and a win for auto manufacturers."
  The legislation included other measures co-sponsored by Senator Stevens that are important to Alaska. These include: 
   * Renewable Energy Construction Grants: This provision provides federal grants of up to 50 percent of construction costs for a wide variety of renewable energy projects including: wind, geothermal, ocean and tidal, biomass, solar, landfill gas and small hydroelectric projects in Alaska. Currently, hundreds of millions of dollars are appropriated each year to renewable energy research and development, but only a small portion of these funds are actually allocated to communities to construct projects. 
   * Alaska Gas Pipeline Federal Coordinator: This provision exempts the Federal Coordinator from executive branch hiring procedures which will allow the office to be more adequately staffed to handle permitting and design issues. The amendment also allows the Federal Coordinator to establish reasonable charges, commissions, and filing and service fees to pay for personnel needed to permit, review pipeline plans, and oversee construction of a gas pipeline.
   Contact: Aaron Saunders, 202/224-1028; Steve Wackowski, 202/224-5122.  
 
 