SEN. STEVENS LAUDS SENATE PASSAGE OF IMMIGRATION REFORM ACT
  Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) applauded the Senate's passage of the Comprehensive Immigration Reform Act of 2006 (S. 2611) by a vote of 62 to 36. S. 2611 contains several provisions that will directly benefit Alaska, including measures to delay the implementation of Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative (WHTI), address immigration needs in areas inaccessible by road, and eliminate barriers to tourism and trade.  
   "The Immigration Reform Act is an important piece of legislation, and I commend my colleagues for supporting its passage," said Stevens. "This bill includes provisions that directly benefit our state's seafood and tourism industries, and it will ensure Alaskans who live in remote areas have access to immigration services. The provision extending the WHTI implementation deadline will help ensure our state is not disproportionately impacted by this new documentation program." 
   The Comprehensive Immigration Reform Act of 2006 contains an amendment offered by Stevens which delays the implementation of the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative by 17 months. When the WHTI goes into effect, all U.S. citizens will be required to present a passport or other accepted secure document when entering the country from abroad. S. 2611 extends the WHTI enforcement deadline from January 1, 2008 to June 1, 2009. 
   Another provision in S. 2611 ensures seasonal work visas will continue to be equitably distributed between winter and summer months. The bill also exempts certain returning seasonal workers from the visa cap, ensuring more visas will be available for new workers. 
   In addition, S. 2611 authorizes U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) to offer immigration services in areas that are not accessible by road. This provision will assist immigrants living in Alaska's remote communities, who currently must fly to Anchorage for citizen and immigration services. 
   Finally, the Act includes an amendment cosponsored by Stevens that authorizes the Secretary of Homeland Security, in conjunction with the Department of State, to designate any country that has met Visa Waiver Program (VWP) requirements a "program country." Designed to boost tourism and trade with qualifying countries, this designation allows citizens of eligible countries to travel within the United States for up to 90 days without obtaining a visa. 
   The Comprehensive Immigration Reform Act of 2006 has been referred to conference with the U.S. House of Representatives.
 
 