DR. AKASOFU TESTIFIES ON GLOBAL CLIMATE CHANGE
  At the request of Senate Commerce Committee Chairman Sen.Ted Stevens (R-Alaska), Dr. Syun-Ichi Akasofu, Director of the International Arctic Research Center at the University of Alaska Fairbanks, testified at a hearing held today by the Commerce Subcommittee on Global Climate Change and Impacts. The hearing addressed how changes in climate affect marine and terrestrial systems and highlighted the importance of scientific research in this area.  
   During the hearing, Senator Stevens explained that the Subcommittee on Global Climate Change and Impacts was created at his request because "it is imperative that the decision makers in government and industry have the best possible science to rely upon as we deal with the problems of global climate change." 
   Stevens also noted that research on climate change in Alaska is essential to understanding changes elsewhere. "If we can understand and really watch what is going on in Alaska," said Stevens, "then the rest of the country will learn from it." 
   During his testimony, Dr. Akasofu shared the results of his extensive research on climate change with members of the subcommittee. He told them that in the last 50 years changes in climate have primarily taken place in the Arctic, and he questioned the assumption that current warming trends are solely the result of human activities. "We have at least two firm scientific indicators that show that it is incorrect to conclude that this warming in the continental Arctic is due entirely to the greenhouse effect caused by man," he said. 
   "If the warming trend during the last half of the last century were in part due to the greenhouse effect, the past geographic pattern of the warming should intensify," said Akasofu. "But this is not the case. Various warming and cooling of similar magnitudes has been continuously occurring at different locations and different times during the last 100 years." 
   Akasofu offered an alternative explanation for fluctuations in the Arctic climate. He said that warming in the Arctic Ocean could be the result of the North Atlantic Oscillation, a phenomena which moves warm water from the North Atlantic Ocean into the Arctic Ocean and around the Siberian coast towards Alaska.
   Contact: Courtney Boone, 202/224-1028; Janel Causey, 202/224-5122. 
 
 