SEN. STEVENS SECURES $30 MILLION FOR EPA WATER AND SEWER PROJECTS
  President George W. Bush today signed into law the Fiscal Year 2008 Appropriations Omnibus Act, which provides more than $121.8 million** for U.S. Department of Interior (DOI) spending on Alaska programs within the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), U.S. Forest Service, Fish and Wildlife Service, Bureau of Land Management (BLM), United States Geological Survey (USGS), and National Park Service (NPS).
   "There is over 252 million acres of federal land in Alaska" said Senator Stevens. "Congress must ensure that the federal government properly funds the agencies that have the responsibility of managing these vast portions of Alaska." 
   The $121.8 million for projects and programs in Alaska includes $25 million in EPA funds for rural and Alaska Native villages to address special water and wastewater treatment needs of households that lack basic sanitation. Within this allocation, $600,000 will be used to test a water purification system for remote villages, $500,000 for water and sewer improvements in Kodiak, and another $550,000 for upgrades to water and sewer systems in both Wrangell and Ketchikan.
   "Alaska faces many unique challenges, but perhaps none greater than bringing our villages and small communities into the 21st century," said Senator Stevens. "This effort has spanned several decades and continues with the passage of this year's spending bill. These funds help ensure that Alaskans have access to the same basic water and sewage systems that Americans in the Lower 48 take for granted. Without this assistance, rural Alaskans are at an increased risk of disease and sickness. Clean drinking water and proper waste removal are important building blocks to healthy communities."
   Within the DOI funding title of the spending bill, $4 million was included for the Alaska Volcano Observatory (AVO) in Anchorage. AVO was formed in the late 1980s to monitor and minimize the effects of volcanic eruptions in Alaska. There are 41 historically active volcanoes in Alaska, and the state averages four days of volcanic ash activity each year. Ash plumes from nine active volcanoes could impact Anchorage International Airport, the largest cargo hub in the United States.
   "Congress has rightfully approved $4 million in funding for the USGS's Alaska Volcano Observatory, which is critical to the safety of Alaskans and international air travelers," said Senator Stevens. "While some have called funding for the AVO a misuse of taxpayer dollars, Alaskans know that accurate and reliable volcano monitoring saves lives."
   BLM received nearly $37 million for the Alaska land conveyance program. These funds will be used to survey Native allotments, state and Native land selections, and other parcels to expedite the conveyance process. The goal is to complete work on all allotment applications and all land selections under the Alaska Statehood Act of 1959, the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act of 1971, and the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act of 1980 by 2009. This funding will ensure that the plan is carried out. Senator Stevens also supported $6 million in BLM funds in the spending bill to be directed to North Slope Energy Initiatives.
   The omnibus appropriations bill also provided the Indian Health Service (IHS) with approximately $380 million for facilities. Of this total, $12.6 million is set aside in the President's budget for construction of the hospital in Barrow. Of the funds provided in the omnibus for Indian health services, $15 million is for substance abuse programs in Alaska. In addition, the Alaska Federal Health Care Network, a system started by Senator Stevens, will receive $3.5 million. This network consolidates the healthcare responsibilities of several agencies, so that the Department of Defense, Veterans Affairs, and the Bureau of Indian Affairs do not each have to have their own facilities and their own networks to distribute healthcare services to Alaskans in our rural communities and villages. The Alaska Federal Health Care Access Network now has 235 sites across Alaska, including almost all villages.
   The U.S. Forest Service was budgeted almost $12 million for Alaska projects which include subsistence management ($5 million), urban wildfire mitigation and prevention ($2.5 million), Tongass National Forest sales and preparation ($4 million), and the Craig land exchange ($500,000).
   Other Alaska-based Department of Interior programs and projects that secured funding thanks to the efforts of Senator Stevens include:
   * Yukon Flats Land Exchange: $400,000 to continue the first phase of an Environmental Impact Statement for the land exchange between Doyon and the Fish & Wildlife Service.
   * Kenai Fjords Multi-Agency Center: $2 million in funds are dedicated to construct a conference facility co-located with a multi-agency center in Seward. Partners in this project are Kenai Fjords National Park, Chugach National Forest, Alaska State Parks, National Marine Fisheries Service, the Alaska SeaLife Center, the city of Seward.
   ** Funding levels for the Department of Interior contained in the Omnibus Appropriations Act are subject to a 1.56 percent reduction as part of a bipartisan compromise needed to pass the bill. All spending figures in this press release do not reflect these reductions.
   Contact: Aaron Saunders, 202/224-1028; Steve Wackowski, 202/224-5122.
 
 