SENATE CONFIRMS ALASKAN NOMINEE TO BE DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION PIPELINE, HAZMAT SAFETY ADMINISTRATOR
  The Senate today confirmed by unanimous consent the nomination of retired Vice Admiral Thomas J. Barrett, United States Coast Guard (USCG), to serve as the first Administrator of the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA). Barrett currently serves as the vice president and chief operating officer of the Potomac Institute for Policy Studies.  
   "Vice Admiral Barrett is a devoted public servant. His distinguished service with the United States Coast Guard and his commitment to securing the safety of our nation led President Bush to nominate him for this position," said Stevens. "I am pleased the Senate has approved this nomination. I am confident Vice Admiral Barrett will approach this position with the same dedication with which he has fulfilled his past assignments." 
   During Barrett's nomination hearing in February, Stevens said he hoped Barrett would enhance coordination between the Pipeline Administration and the Transportation Security Administration. Stevens is concerned about the agencies' efforts to secure the Trans-Alaska Pipeline and the future Alaska Natural Gas Pipeline. He encouraged Barrett to secure domestic pipelines while eliminating redundancy in reporting between the agencies. 
   "We want absolute safety and we want absolute security, but the redundancy matter ought to be examined," said Stevens. "You might tell us whether these two agencies ought to somehow be either separated or combined." 
   Prior to joining the Potomac Institute, Barrett served in the USCG for 35 years. He was stationed throughout the Gulf Coast of Alaska, where he commanded the Seventeenth Coast Guard District and served as Commander, Naval Forces Alaska. Barrett directed USCG operations in the North Pacific, including the Gulf of Alaska, the Eastern Bering Sea, and the Arctic Ocean. In 2002, the Alaska State Legislature officially honored his contributions to the state. 
   Barrett's other assignments have included command of the Coast Guard's largest operational base at Kodiak and coordination of the Coast Guard Leadership Council. He has also served as Deputy Commander of Coast Guard Maintenance and Logistics Command, Atlantic and Special Assistant to the Chief Counsel. 
   Barrett earned a bachelor's degree in biology from Le Moyne College in Syracuse, NY and a juris doctor from The George Washington University. He is also a graduate of the Army War College and the National Defense University. 
   Vice Admiral Barrett and his wife, Sheila, have two sons. Both of their sons are Iraq combat veterans.
 
 