APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE FOR SEN. STEVENS' SUMMER INTERN PROGRAM
  Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) is now accepting applications for summer internships in his Washington, D.C. office. For more than three decades Sen. Stevens has provided Alaskans with an opportunity to work in the heart of the nation's capitol by offering internships to graduating high school seniors and college students from Alaska.  
   To apply for a summer internship, applicants must complete and submit an application postmarked or faxed no later than Wednesday, March 1, 2006. All applications should be sent to the Senator's Washington, D.C. office. 
   Applications are available: 
   1. On-line at Senator Stevens' Web site at http://stevens.senate.gov/students.cfm 
   2. From any one of Senator Stevens' Alaska offices (listed in the footer below) 
   3. From high school principals or counselors 
   The high school intern program gives graduating seniors the opportunity to participate in one of two month-long sessions. 
   First Session: Saturday, June 3 to Saturday, July 1 
  Second Session: Saturday, July 8 to Saturday, August 5 
   The college intern program provides full-time employment to college students from Alaska for the entire summer; applicants are encouraged to specify dates based on individual academic schedules. 
   Selected interns will assist the Senator and his staff with day-to-day operations. Duties will include monitoring committee hearings, conducting research, answering phones, filing, carrying messages to the Senate Floor or the Senator's committee offices, and assisting in the production of his weekly radio report. 
   While interns can expect to receive a small salary, they are responsible for living expenses incurred during their stay in Washington. High school interns are required to live on the campus of George Washington University (GW), while college interns may stay on GW campus or make alternative housing arrangements.
   Contact: Courtney Boone, 202/224-1028; Janel Anderson, 202/224-5122. 
 
 