SENATE COMMITTEE APPROVES SENS. STEVENS, INOUYE BILL TO ENCOURAGE TRAVEL TO U.S.
  The Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation today approved the Travel Promotion Act of 2007 (S. 1661) cosponsored by Vice Chairman Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) and Chairman Sen. Daniel Inouye (D-Hawaii) and sponsored by Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-N.D.). The overall bill would encourage international travelers to visit the United States and establish the non-profit Corporation for Travel Promotion to facilitate and encourage increased travel by foreign tourists. The legislation now awaits consideration by the full Senate. 
  The Committee also approved an amendment to the bill with two provisions authored by Senator Stevens and Senator Inouye. The first provision would establish a "Model Ports" program at the 20 United States airports with the highest volume of international travelers, while the second would allow the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to hire 200 additional Customs and Border Protection officers for those airports. 
  "This legislation will help increase the number of foreign tourists who visit the United States by creating a robust travel promotion campaign," said Senator Stevens. "This bill is particularly important to my home State of Alaska, where the travel and tourism industry is the second largest private sector employer. More than 24,000 Alaskans hold tourism-related jobs, and the industry contributes more than $2 billion to our State's economy each year."
  The non-profit Corporation for Travel Promotion created by this legislation would be supported through private industry contributions and public funds that will be placed into a dedicated "Travel Promotion Fund." The Fund will be sustained though annual private industry contributions matched by user-fees that will be collected through the soon to be implemented automated Electronic Traveler Authorization (ETA) program. No fees will be collected from American taxpayers. The Department of Homeland Security is currently developing the ETA program for Visa Waiver Program (VWP) travelers to give advance information on their travels to the United States. In return, the VWP travelers will be given authorization electronically to travel to the United States. The authority allowing the Department of Homeland Security to collect fees with this program has been included in this legislation.
  S.1661 will also establish the Office of Travel Promotion within the Department of Commerce, which will be led by the Under Secretary for Travel Promotion. The Under Secretary will work to improve the entry procedures for international visitors and develop a plan to increase the number of foreign tourists to the United States. Finally, this legislation will ensure that the Office of Travel and Tourism Industries expands its research activities to further promote international travel to the United States.
   Contact: Aaron Saunders, 202/224-1028; Steve Wackowski, 202/224-5122.  
 
 