ON RECORD: SEN. STEVENS' STATEMENTS DURING WEEK OF JULY 23
  On protecting children from online predators
   "The Internet is a dynamic space where Americans turn to get information, do research, and exchange ideas. Given the increasingly important role of the Internet in education and commerce, it differs from other media like TV and cable because parents cannot prevent their children from using the Internet altogether. The headlines continue to tell us of children who are victimized online. While the issues are difficult, I believe Congress has an important role to play to ensure that the protections available in other parts of our society find their way to the Internet." (7/24/07) 
  On funding MRAPs in the Senate FY08 Defense Appropriations bill 
   "The MRAPs are very expensive mechanisms. There are over 17,000 of them being made. It is going to cost a considerable amount of money to get them finished and get them over to the war zone as quickly as possible. The Marines have proven that (MRAPs) are much safer for our people to travel around in?.I don't know where (the money) is going to come from, but I know MRAPs have to be the number one priority after basic payroll, health and maintenance. It has to be the number one priority." (7/24/07)
  On the digital television transition 
   "This transition will reap important benefits for all Americans, but especially with respect to public safety because (first responders) will receive much needed spectrum?.With respect to the TV side of the transition, I am pleased by the progress made to date. We all know that some elements will require special attention. I look forward to hearing from our witnesses as to how the transition will address rural areas of the country, like Alaska. We have our fair share of residents in Alaska who rely solely on broadcast TV for their news and entertainment. I am also concerned that no demographic is overlooked as the transition moves forward." (7/26/07)
  On concerns with the cargo screening provision adopted in the 9/11 Commission bill
   "Our nation's ports, including the Port of Anchorage, are vital to our economies - both regional and national. Ensuring their security must be a top priority. But a mandate to scan every cargo container entering the U.S. could shut down many of these ports, and the resulting delays for both imports and exports would be excessive and costly for consumers?.Here at home, these cargo scanning provisions may be equally, if not more, devastating to rural economies. Communities in the Lower 48 are served by multiple transportation modes distributing basic supplies like food and other consumer goods. In Alaska, however, over 90 percent of our supplies flow through the Port of Anchorage. Any disruption at this port would be a disaster for Alaskans, not to mention the Port of Tacoma, which serves as a conduit for cargo transiting to and from Alaska." (7/26/07)
   Contact: Aaron Saunders, 202/224-1028; Steve Wackowski, 202/224-5122. 
 
 