SEN. STEVENS SELLS ALASKA TO FELLOW SENATORS
  At a luncheon he hosted today, Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) brought his Washington, D.C. colleagues pieces of his home state in Alaska Grown bags.  
   Luncheon attendees ate smoked salmon from Isaac Dale; fresh Alaska vegetables from Gold Nugget Farms, Butte Farms, and Palmer Produce; and fresh Alaska salmon accompanied by dill sauce, which was made using a secret family recipe provided by the Senator's wife, Catherine. The Senator thanked Catherine by showering her with Knotty Kisses from The Knotty Shop and fresh biscotti from Tonia's. Mrs. Stevens added a touch of class to the Alaska Grown bags by making sure that Alaska's gold rush, which her family participated in, was not forgotten with souvenir gold flake pendants from El Dorado Gold Mine. 
   After lunch, Stevens proceeded to give Alaska away inch by inch, thanks to deeds to the North Pole from the Santa Claus House. He then turned up the heat on members by offering them Rosa's Hot Sauce from Alaska Heat Products, Indian Valley Teriyaki Caribou Sticks, and Yak Pedro Sticks from B-Y Farms. Stevens also had plenty of soap on hand from Heartfelt Handfuls and Twigs for members headed to baby kissing events. At one point, he even catered to members' dogs, offering delicious Yummy Chummy dog treats from Arctic Paws. 
   Senate tables were saved from spills of Alaska Amber from the Alaskan Brewing Company and coffee from the North Pole Coffee Roasting Company thanks to the Great Alaskan Bowl Company's wooden coasters. 
   While leaving the luncheon, several Senators were overheard saying that they will be marking the days until the next lunch hosted by Senator Stevens and daydreaming about the Great Land's beauty thanks to calendars of Ketchikan from Tena Williams. Senators will also be able to Remember Alaska thanks to totes from Once in a Blue Moose. 
   Senator Stevens thanks each of the Alaskan businesses that donated products for today's Thursday Lunch Group; the name of each business is italicized in this release. Because of their generosity, more than forty members of the U.S. Senate were exposed to products made in Alaska by Alaskans.
 
 