SEN. STEVENS VOTES FOR 9/11 COMMISSION BILL CONFERENCE REPORT
  Senator Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) late last night voted in favor of the conference report to H.R. 1, legislation to implement recommendations made by the bipartisan 9/11 Commission. The measure passed the Senate 85-8 and has now been sent to the House of Representatives, which is expected to vote on its passage today. 
  "The passage of this legislation marks a step forward in Congress' efforts to defend our nation from terrorism. It will enable us to remain flexible and adapt as the world changes so we can better protect America and its interests," said Senator Stevens. "Although this bill is not perfect, we must continue to advance homeland security. The safety of Americans is not a partisan issue."  
  Senator Stevens drafted several provisions which were incorporated into H.R. 1 earlier this month. The Senator was instrumental in getting the following measures approved by the Senate Commerce Committee, and then ensuring their inclusion in the broader 9/11 Commission bill: 
  The Surface Transportation and Rail Security (STARS) Act of 2007, S. 184 - Authorizes new surface transportation and rail security assessments, grant programs, research and development initiatives, and security measures for the nation's major modes of surface transportation. The provision proposes new programs to address known risks and authorizes ongoing efforts at the Transportation Security Administration (TSA). It also provides a statutory framework for the TSA's surface transportation and rail security efforts for the first time by setting specific goals, tasks, and timelines for security improvements in these critical areas. This provision authorizes $1.2 billion over four years for railroad security improvements. 
  The Aviation Security Improvement Act, S. 509 - Addresses aviation security recommendations made by the 9/11 Commission in the areas of cargo and baggage screening, explosive detection at airport checkpoints, passenger pre-screening, and general aviation security. The measure also increases the size of national explosives detection and canine teams; requires the TSA to report on progress developing a passenger pre-screening program; and will allow airports in Alaska, such as Anchorage International, to be reimbursed for the purchase and implementation of in-line baggage systems. 
  The Interoperable Emergency Communications Act, S. 385 - Gives the National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) greater direction regarding how to use the $1 billion interoperability fund created by the Senate Commerce Committee in the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005. Additionally, the program authorizes a strategic technology reserve so emergency equipment can be prepositioned throughout the country prior to a disaster or emergency. The provision also directs NITA to place a strategic technology reserve in Alaska. 
  The 911 Modernization Act of 2007, S. 93 - Upgrades the 911 system used to reach operators during emergencies. This provision will expedite funding for new 911 technological upgrades (using funds already allocated by Congress), and will also fund the grant program established by the "Ensuring Needed Help Arrives Near Callers Employing 911 (ENHANCE) Act", which was signed into law in 2004. The budget reconciliation bill of 2005 made $43.5 million available to public safety groups from the auction of TV spectrum. This provision will make those funds available immediately to public safety groups and will be replaced after the auction is held, which is expected to be later this year. 
  Expansion of the Visa Waiver Program - Extends 90-day visa-free travel privileges to the United States' allies in the War on Terror, which could in turn increase the number of tourists and business travelers who visit the United States. This legislation strengthens and modernizes the visa waiver program and establishes new security requirements for participating countries. 
  Emergency Management Performance Grant Program - Ensures Alaska will receive Emergency Management Performance funding. Monies will be available to help State agencies in preparation for terrorist attacks and natural disasters.
   Contact: Aaron Saunders, 202/224-1028; Steve Wackowski, 202/224-5122.
 
 