COMMITTEE APPROVES SENS. STEVENS-MURKOWSKI RESOLUTION TO PROTECT ARCTIC FISHERIES
  Senator Ted Stevens' (R-Alaska) and Senator Lisa Murkowski's (R-Alaska) joint resolution directing the United States to negotiate an international agreement for managing fish stocks in the Arctic Ocean is one step closer to passage. Today the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation unanimously approved the measure (S.J. Res 17), which now heads to the full Senate for its consideration.  
  "The shifts we are observing in ocean temperatures and currents may have a tremendous impact on fish habitat and migratory fish stocks in the Arctic," said Senator Stevens, Vice Chairman of the Commerce Committee. "Environmental changes could potentially expand commercial fishing activity to this ocean, affecting our industry and Alaska Native communities which depend on Arctic fish species for subsistence. To address these concerns before significant fishing occurs, the United States should lead discussions with other nations to promote science-based management, which will ensure the sustainability of these important fish." 
  Currently, commercial fishing in the Arctic Ocean has been limited by the distribution of fish habitat and short fishing seasons. Due to impacts of climate change, ocean temperatures may shift, causing fish to enter new habitats and creating more favorable fishing conditions. The North Pacific Fishery Management Council recognized the importance of properly managing these emerging fisheries, and it proposed in June that the U.S. close all federal waters in the Arctic Ocean until a management regime is put in place. S.J. Res 17 is consistent with that effort. 
  The resolution would also address the problem of illegal, unreported, and unregulated (IUU) fishing. It calls upon the U.S. to help prevent fishing on the high seas of the Arctic until an international fisheries management plan is developed, which would contain measures to combat IUU fishing that continues to undermine fisheries worldwide. Senator Stevens is leading the fight against IUU fishing and believes that eliminating these illegal fishing practices is a key to maintaining the health of Alaska's fisheries.
   Contact: Aaron Saunders, 202/224-1028; Steve Wackowski, 202/224-5122.
 
 