SEN. STEVENS URGES SECRETARY CHERTOFF TO RECONSIDER NEW BORDER RULE
  Senator Ted Stevens (R-Alaska), Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.), and a bipartisan group of 16 Senators today sent a letter to Michael Chertoff, Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), in opposition to Customs and Border Protection's new border crossing requirements beginning on January 31, 2008. On Thursday, U.S. citizens crossing land and sea borders will have to present documentary proof of citizenship, such as a birth certificate, as well as a government-issued photo identification card.
   In addition to the letter, Senator Stevens today said, "The Department of Homeland Security's insistence on the hasty implementation of new border security measures is short-sighted. While we all want to deter terrorists from entering our country, it is clear that federal agencies, and border agents in particular, just aren't prepared to handle the new demands being placed on them by Secretary Chertoff. 
   "Worse yet, the American public isn't ready. Many citizens aren't aware of the rule changes and others living in remote areas do not even possess birth certificates. If these new requirements go into effect at the end of this month, travel to and from Alaska and other border states will be severely crippled. I strongly urge Secretary Chertoff to reconsider his decision to move forward with this ill-conceived plan."
   The letter asks DHS to continue accepting oral declarations of citizenship and government-issued photo ID cards at U.S. borders until full implementation of the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative (WHTI) in June 2009. Under WHTI, border crossings will require possession of a passport or passcard. Senator Stevens and Senator Leahy have been successful several times in recent years in delaying implantation of the land and sea portions of WHTI.
   In the letter, the Senators voiced their concerns with lack of outreach and impact to rural citizens: "We understand the need for travelers to continue presenting government-issued identification cards at the border, but the DHS has done a poor job promoting its significant change in citizenship document requirements. We are particularly concerned that citizens in rural areas may not be aware of this new requirement and might not have time to obtain a copy of their birth certificate by February 1."
   Senator Stevens and his colleagues also used the letter to express their doubts about whether border agents are prepared for the added responsibilities placed on them by Secretary Chertoff's new directive. The Senators wrote: "For many years, Customs and Border Patrol (CBP) agents have accepted oral declarations of citizenship from travelers entering the United States, and they have had the authority to ask for proof of citizenship when necessary. Since there are nearly 8,000 variations of birth certificates issued by various states, provinces, and localities in the United States and Canada, determining the authenticity of a birth certificate provided at the border is a daunting task for our already overstretched CBP agents. Creating an interim standard - much less one without an aggressive public relations campaign to inform the traveling public - will further complicate implementation of definitive citizenship standards."
   For more information on the new border crossing regulations, Senator Stevens' Alaska offices can be reached at:
   Anchorage: (907) 271-5915
  Fairbanks: (907) 456-0261
  Juneau: (907) 586-7400
  Ketchikan: (907) 225-6880
   The list of approved documents and new procedures can be reviewed on Customs and Border Protection's website at: http://www.cbp.gov/xp/cgov/travel/vacation/ready_set_go/land_travel/chnge_in_proced.xml
   Contact: Aaron Saunders, 202/224-1028; Steve Wackowski, 202/224-5122.
 
 