SENATE COMMERCE COMMITTEE APPROVES COMMUNICATIONS REFORM BILL
  The Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee today approved the Advanced Telecommunications and Opportunity Reform Act (H.R. 5252) by a vote of 15 to 7. The legislation, which Chairman Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) introduced in May, is the culmination of 26 hearings, six listening sessions, and bipartisan collaboration between the members of the committee. The bill includes several provisions that will directly benefit Alaska.  
   "I am pleased at the overwhelming support this legislation has received," said Stevens after the committee's vote. "Today, our committee approved a very meaningful bill. It really brings together all forms of communication under the concept of freedom in the interest of the consumer, and its impact in rural areas will be substantial." 
   Several provisions included in H.R. 5252 will improve the communications services available in Alaska. The Act reforms the Universal Service Fund (USF), a federal program originally created to offset the cost of building and operating telecommunications networks in rural areas of the United States. It expands the base of USF contributors and creates an annual $500 million fund to address communications needs in rural areas. These funds will be used to deploy broadband to areas that currently do not have service, including rural areas in Alaska. 
   H.R. 5252 also allows small rural telecommunications carriers to offer video services and, where feasible, increases the availability of satellite services. In addition, the legislation encourages the expansion of wireless broadband and home networking services by freeing up unused broadcast spectrum. 
   The Advanced Telecommunications and Opportunity Reform Act, which was previously introduced as the Communications, Consumers' Choice, and Broadband Deployment Act of 2006 (S. 2686), reforms existing communications laws. Its provisions promote competition, cost savings for consumers, and the speedy deployment of broadband services to all Americans. The Act will now be sent to the full Senate for consideration.
 
 