SEN. STEVENS ADDRESSES INTERNATIONAL WHALING COMMISSION
  Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) today addressed the International Whaling Commission (IWC), which is currently holding its 59th annual meeting in Anchorage. During this gathering, IWC member nations will negotiate a global policy on the management of whales and debate whether to renew subsistence rights for Alaska Natives. 
  Senator Stevens' remarks, as prepared for delivery, are below: 
  Many of you traveled a great distance to join us today - welcome to Anchorage. Your Commission's stewardship has ensured the recovery of whale stocks around the world for more than 60 years. Those of us who have watched their recovery are grateful for your hard work, diligent efforts, and steady vision. 
  Holding this pivotal meeting here is very fitting. Our Alaska Native people have a tremendous stake in the critical issues you will examine in coming days. And, as you know, one of our top priorities for this year's meeting is the renewal of the bowhead subsistence whaling quota through 2012. 
  I have worked closely with the IWC on this issue throughout my 39-year tenure as a United States Senator. Our strong support for aboriginal subsistence rights is well-known. I defend our Alaska Natives' right to sustainably harvest bowhead whales. It is more than a right - it is an absolute necessity which affects every facet of their well-being. To deny this history would jeopardize their way of life.
  Bowhead harvests are the basis for centuries-old traditions - a critical component of Alaska Natives' heritage, culture, and identity. Meat from these whales provides a primary source of nutrition for many Native villages. Simply put, the bowhead whale harvest is the cornerstone of their society.
  Experts tell us the Arctic bowhead population reached a low point between 1910 and 1920, as a result of commercial over-harvesting, which began in the 1850s. No firm estimate exists for the population level during that time; the best estimate is between 1,500 and 3,000 whales in 1920. 
  The bowhead quota for Alaska Natives was suspended in 1977 during a highly contentious IWC meeting. A rough year followed for the residents of Alaska's Arctic Coast. During the winter months, the situation became dire - canned beef was flown in to provide villagers an adequate source of protein and fat. These were poor substitutes for whale blubber, which fortifies Native people against the harsh Arctic climate. 
  Alaska Natives were shocked when the moratorium was imposed. Elders had told the IWC there were thousands of whales in the area, more than enough whales to sustain the bowhead subsistence hunt. This action compelled Native people to pull together. With the help of our federal government, they formed the Alaska Eskimo Whaling Commission.
  Their efforts showed immediate results. Many of us attended the IWC meetings to explain their plight. In 1978, the quota was renewed. 
  Members of the Alaska Eskimo Whaling Commission have been able to continue their sustainable harvest since that time. Bowhead levels have been closely monitored each year, and bowhead recovery has been swift since then. The Arctic bowhead population now totals more than 10,000 whales and continues to increase by at least three percent each year. 
  A cooperative management arrangement between the Alaska Eskimo Whaling Commission, the National Oceanic & Atmospheric Administration, and the IWC's Scientific Committee has helped ensure the growth of this population. This is truly a major accomplishment - a severely depleted whale population recovered while the subsistence activities of Alaskan aboriginal hunters continued at the same time. 
  When our Alaska Natives take a whale, no part of it goes to waste. Meat is shared throughout each community in accordance with strict historical cultural allocations. Our Natives have never taken these whales for commercial purposes - they never will! 
  The IWC should not worry about the sustainability of this harvest. The very survival of the Eskimo people is tied to the survival of Arctic bowhead whales. 
  It is imperative that the decisions of the International Whaling Commission pertaining to Alaska Native continue to protect this sustainable and humane harvest. 
  In closing, it is my hope your critical vote on the renewal of the bowhead subsistence quota will be a testament to your recognition of the unique culture of our Alaska Native people. Our nation settled their claims against our federal government. Their survival is assured by their ownership of over 45 million acres of land, which they continue to maintain to support their subsistence way of life. 
  They enjoy substantial support from our Federal and State governments in their efforts to preserve their culture and at the same time permit their young people to seek and obtain graduate university degrees.
  Simply put: I believe the Alaska Native people have the support of all Americans, without regard to partisan differences, because they have earned our respect and admiration. I ask you to join the United States in continuing to recognize their right to harvest bowhead whales.
   Contact: Aaron Saunders, 202/224-1028; Steve Wackowski, 202/224-5122.  
 
 