SEN. STEVENS SUPPORTS JUDGE JOHN ROBERTS FOR CHIEF JUSTICE
  Having lived and studied alongside one of the greatest legal minds of my generation, I believe Judge Roberts' capability and knowledge of the law is superior to any of his generation.  
   When I was at Harvard Law, my roommate was H. Reed Baldwin. He had abilities quite similar to those of John Roberts. He was at the top of our class and on the Harvard Law Review. He was a "Renaissance man" who could handle almost any subject. Unfortunately, he suffered an untimely death; otherwise, he might have once been in the same place John Roberts is in today. 
   During the Judiciary Committee's hearings, Juneau Mayor Bruce Botelho testified in support of Judge Roberts' nomination. Bruce was Attorney General for the State of Alaska from 1994 through 2002, and he employed John to represent our state before the Supreme Court on a wide range of issues, including the Venetie case involving Indian Country claims and cases related to submerged land issues, natural resource matters, and the Alaska Statehood Act. 
   As a matter of fact, I met with Judge John Roberts then, and I have met with him since. He has a brilliant legal mind. And, I am not alone in that opinion. Judge Roberts has been to our state many times, and he has won the respect of Alaskans who hold a wide range of political beliefs and opinions. 
   Judge Roberts also won the respect of the Bar Association of the District of Columbia - of which I am also a member. In December 2002, when Judge Roberts was nominated to serve as a federal court of appeals judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, more than 150 members of the D.C. Bar sent a letter to the Judiciary Committee of the United States Senate supporting his nomination. I know many of those bar members who signed that letter. They are a distinguished and bi-partisan group of lawyers. The Supreme Court Bar - the best bar in the country. They are lawyers, law professors, and public servants, and they said it best. They said John Roberts is "the best of the bar." 
   I agree with their opinion and the opinion of many Alaskans who have worked with him. I shall vote to confirm Judge Roberts as the 17th chief justice of the United States, and I urge all of my colleagues in the Senate to do the same.
 
 