SEN. STEVENS INTRODUCES RESOLUTION TO HONOR ALASKA'S COAST GUARD SEARCH, RESCUE UNITS
  Senator Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) today introduced a resolution to honor Alaska's United States Coast Guard search and rescue units for their service in protecting life at sea. The resolution, which is co-sponsored by Senator Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska), notes that in 2007, the men and women of the United States Coast Guard stationed in Alaska responded to 696 calls for assistance and saved the lives of 463 mariners in distress.  
   "Our United States Coast Guard has saved more than one million lives over the course of its proud 217-year history of maritime search and rescue," said Senator Stevens. "Especially in Alaska, these brave men and women are the guardians of the sea and the first to respond when there is trouble. Our nation owes them a great debt of thanks for their tireless work, dedication, and commitment to saving lives." 
   "The men and women of the United States Coast Guard deserve our utmost respect and gratitude for the sacrifices they, and their families, make on a daily basis to protect and serve our Nation," said Senator Murkowski. "In Alaska, where the often perilous weather and remoteness necessitates a great need for search and rescue units, the Coast Guard has truly played a heroic role in our coastal communities." 
   The resolution also honors Petty Officer Willard L. Milam, who received the 2007 Coast Guard Foundation Award for Heroism and the 2007 Captain Frank Erickson Aviation Rescue Award. Petty Officer Milam was a guest of First Lady Laura Bush during last night's State of the Union address and met with Senators Stevens and Murkowski during lunch on Monday. 
   Last February, Petty Officer Milam, who is stationed in Kodiak, launched aboard a Coast Guard HH-65 helicopter in near-zero visibility to locate the source of a distress signal approximately 50 miles southwest in Makushin Bay. Upon discovering the source of the distress signal, Petty Officer Milam deployed into storm-tossed, 40-degree seas and swam to a life raft to find four survivors hypothermic and soaked in unprotected clothing. Petty Officer Milam overcame exhaustion and hypothermia to pull each survivor from the life raft and assist them through the raging seas, placing them into the rescue basket to be hoisted into the rescue helicopter.
   Contact: Aaron Saunders, 202/224-1028; Steve Wackowski, 202/224-5122.
 
 