SEN. STEVENS FIGHTS FOR ALASKA'S TIMBER INDUSTRY
  Today, Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) went to the Senate floor to again encourage the Senate to vote to keep funding for the planning, design, study and construction of forest development roads in the Tongass National Forest in the Fiscal Year 2006 Senate Interior Appropriations Bill. 
   In his statement to the Senate, Senator Stevens reminded his fellow Senators that Senator John Sununu's amendment did not reduce the budget but instead diverted the funds from Alaska, allowing them to be spent elsewhere. A vote "No" by a Senator is a vote for Alaska's timber industry and for timber development in the Tongass. 
   Senator Stevens was joined by fellow Alaska Senator Lisa Murkowski, Senator Larry Craig (R-Idaho) and Senator John Ensign (R-NV) in urging the Senate to vote against the measure. The measure failed by a vote of 39 to 59.
   Senator Stevens' remarks follow:
   I really don't like it when people don't read numbers correctly.
   The Tongass land use plan for instance cost $13 million. The Forest Service spends most of its money in Alaska on planning and designing the roads and defending the lawsuits that are brought by the environmental organizations that encourage the Senator [Sununu] to bring this amendment.
   As a practical matter, of the 17 million acres left in the Tongass, on 676,000 acres, 4% of the forest are subject to harvesting. 
   Some time ago Congress decided that the Forest Service should build the roads in Alaska. Not the private entity but the Forest Service because fish and wildlife concerns, of recreation concerns and because of the concerns of the people who want access to these islands. 
   There are no roads here. The reason we have this problem - we don't have federal highway money in the area. The area is almost as big as New England. The only roads that are built are built for timber development.
   Now, the study for those roads takes more money than to build the roads. The defense of the litigation takes more money than both. As a matter of fact, 75% of the money spent in the Tongass is spent for environmental concerns defending the litigation that is brought time and time again against any contract to allow people to harvest timber. Four times as many lawsuits are brought against timber sales in Alaska than are brought in all the rest of the country. 
   Now this amendment does not cut a dime from the budget! Not one dime! It is not saving any money!
   It just states that money can't be spent in Alaska. So where is the money going to be spent? It is going to be spent in the other forest service. 
   I call attention to the fact that in the Tongass this year that only $3.6 million was actually used in road support. The balance of it is used in studies and in maintenance of existing roads. Now this is not a case of saving money. As a matter of fact the Forest Service planning, design and construction of timber roads is for the protection of the wildlife, the fish, and the scenic recreation areas for residents and visitors. 
   I do believe that Alaska's timber roads are more expensive because of the environmental studies that must go on. They and plan and design these areas for years before they allow access to the timber. Mr. President, we do that, again, to ensure that the roads are designed properly. This was a compromise with the environmental community! 
   In years gone by the private industry did build the roads. The environmental community didn't like it. They said that we couldn't do it unless we have a plan and the Forest Service carries out that plan. It designs, constructs and plans these roads. And does all of the environmental work. That isn't done in the private sector like it is done in other areas. We spent actually 25% of this money is spent for the administration of these areas. 
   I do believe, Mr. President, that my friends are hiding the fact that they are bringing and environmental amendment. This is not; this is not, an amendment to cut money. 
   I challenge anyone to show that it will save a dime, not one dime! Because it does not cut money from this budget. 
   This amendment is not about spending, if it were it would apply to all forests and if the Senator wants to bring an amendment to reduce the budget, to cut the money for road building, that would be another matter.
   The Tongass has a better monetary rate of concern than 13 of the national forests and the same monetary concern as 17. 
   This is not a fiscal amendment. This is not. This is an amendment that no money be spent to plan, design or construct roads. What for? Partially for timber development, partially for recreation, partially for fish and wildlife protection. Those people involved in administration of Fish and Wildlife laws use those roads. The hikers, the campers use those roads. The roads are built so that we have pedestrians going across bridges and not go across the bottoms of the streams like we used to. In the private sector days the Caterpillars used to go right through the streams, that damaged the streams, damaged the habitat for fish and wildlife and we changed that. The Forest Service plans and designs them. We construct bridges over every single little stream. 
   We protect the environment and now we are accused of trying to spend too much money. Why? Because we are protecting the environment. And we are defending the lawsuits against the environmental concerns. 
   I urge the Senate to reject this amendment it does because it does not cut a dime from the budget.
   Contact: Courtney Schikora Boone, 202/224-1028.
 
 