SENS. STEVENS, MURKOWSKI INTRODUCE RESOLUTION COMMENDING CIVIL AIR PATROL
  Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) and Sen. Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska) have introduced a Senate resolution recognizing the Civil Air Patrol for 65 years of service to the United States. To date, Civil Air Patrol volunteers have flown more than one million hours of search and rescue missions, saving several thousand lives. The organization's cadet programs have trained more than 750,000 youth, providing them leadership and life skills. Over the past 50 years, more than 300,000 teachers - and some 8 million students - have also received training and instructional materials through the Civil Air Patrol's aerospace education program.  
  "The men and women of the Civil Air Patrol have volunteered their time and resources in the service of others for more than 65 years," said Senator Stevens. "From U-boat watches in World War II to homeland security missions today, CAP volunteers have always served with great honor and distinction. The members of this organization are often referred to as 'everyday heroes', and I can think of no title more fitting. Each deserves our nation's deepest gratitude."
  "The members of the Civil Air Patrol are some of the most deserving and unsung heroes in our nation's history, unselfishly donating their time to ensure our nation's safety," Senator Murkowski said. "Standing tall in the face of all enemies of the world, from the cruel Nazi regime in WWII, to the enemies in our current war on terror, the members of the Civil Air Patrol have shown Americans the true meaning of patriotism. For this, our country is grateful for their service."
  CAP was founded in the Office of Civilian Defense on December 1, 1941. During World War II, CAP pilots flew more than 500,000 hours, sunk two German U-boats, and rescued hundreds of crash survivors. Following the war, President Harry Truman signed the law establishing the CAP as a federally chartered benevolent civilian corporation. 
  Today, the CAP includes 1,500 units with a membership of almost 57,000 in each of the 50 states, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico. CAP's stated mission is to serve America by performing homeland security and humanitarian efforts for our communities, states, and nation; developing our country's youth; and educating our citizens on the importance of air and space power. 
  The measure was co-sponsored by Senators Daniel Inouye (D-Hawaii), Pete Domenici (R-N.M.), Michael Crapo (R-Idaho), Ron Wyden (D-Ore.), Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.), Olympia Snowe (R-Maine), Susan Collins (R-Maine), John Warner (R-Va.), and James Inhofe (R-Okla.).
   Contact: Aaron Saunders, 202/224-1028; Steve Wackowski, 202/224-5122.
 
 