CONGRESS APPROVES FY 2007 DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS CONFERENCE REPORT
  The U.S. Senate today passed the House-Senate Conference Committee Report for the Fiscal Year 2007 Defense Appropriations bill. The conference report passed by a vote of 100-0 and will now go to the President for his signature.  
   The $436.6 billion Defense Appropriations bill provides a 2.2 percent across-the-board pay raise for military personnel and contains provisions that will enhance the training and readiness of the armed forces. 
   "It takes an extraordinary person to do the job we ask of our men and women in uniform today," said Senator Ted Stevens (R-Alaska). "The Senate's unanimous passage of this measure demonstrates our support for those who risk their lives for our country each day." 
   The bill funds several training and infrastructure improvements for military units stationed in Alaska. In order to help Elmendorf Air Force Base prepare for the arrival of F-22 aircraft, the bill includes $16.5 million for simulation training and $12.7 million for the activities that will transition existing infrastructure to accommodate the new aircraft. 
   The bill also includes approximately $68.9 million for continued upgrades to critical ranges that support Red Flag Alaska, a series of premier training exercises. These exercises replace COPE Thunder and use ground and air space for real-time training. Red Flag Alaska will provide training for home units in Alaska, visiting U.S. units, and international allies. 
   The bill provides $16.8 million to enhance, integrate, and support year-round Army brigade training within the Alaska ranges. 
   Other funding in the bill will support ongoing projects, including $10 million for Port of Anchorage enhancements and $12 million to realign railroad track through Fort Wainwright and Eielson Air Force Base. The bill also includes a total of $9.5 million for the Alaska Land Mobile Radio (ALMR), a system that will help correct shortfalls in communications interoperability between federal, state, and municipal agencies during emergencies. 
   Other projects included in the bill follow: 
   ARMY: 
   Fire Suppression System at Fort Greely - $1,200,000 
   Improvements to Fort Greely Air Field to create an Expeditionary Capability - $16,500,000 
   Bryant Army National Guard Airfield Clear Zone Waiver - $3,000,000 
   AIR FORCE: 
   Eielson Air Force Base Utilidor Repair - $8,000,000 
   ALCOM HQ Building Upgrades - $10,000,000 
   Upgrade Communications Infrastructure - $18,500,000.
 
 