ALASKANS TO TESTIFY AT U.S. SENATE HEARING ON INTERNATIONAL FISHERIES
  Three Alaskans have accepted an invitation from Senator Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) and the U.S. Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation to testify at a hearing, "International Fisheries: Management and Enforcement." It will begin at 10:00 a.m. EST this Thursday, April 3, 2008 in room 253 of the Russell Senate Office Building. 
   The hearing will focus on the current state of international fisheries management, monitoring, and enforcement, and explore ways the United States can make international fisheries conservation and management more effective.
   The Alaskan witnesses include:
   Rear Admiral Gene Brooks, US Coast Guard 17th District Commander and Joint Forces Maritime Component Commander in Alaska - RADM Brooks is expected to testify about the Coast Guard's current efforts on enforcing and establishing regimes to combat Illegal, Unregulated, Unreported (IUU) fishing on the high seas and their efforts in protecting U.S. fisheries from foreign fishing fleets. He directs Coast Guard operations, including search and rescue, maritime safety, environmental protection, fisheries law enforcement and military readiness in Alaska and the North Pacific. Units and personnel under his command patrol over 3.8 million square miles of ocean and 33,000 miles of coastline.
   Dr. Jim Balsiger, Acting Director of the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS), National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration - Dr. Balsiger is expected to testify about NMFS' efforts in enforcing our international agreements to prevent IUU fishing and establishing agreements to protect both domestic and international fisheries. His agency is responsible for the management, conservation, and protection of living marine resources within the United States' Exclusive Economic Zone (water three to 200 mile offshore). Dr. Balsiger's previous assignments include NOAA Fisheries Regional Administrator for Alaska and Regional Science and Research Director for the Alaska Fisheries Science Center in Seattle.
   David Benton, Executive Director, Marine Conservation Alliance - Mr. Benton is expected to discuss past and future efforts to protect Alaska and the North Pacific fisheries from IUU fishing. He has represented Alaska in international negotiations and national fisheries issues for over 14 years where he had a hand in the negotiation of many of the North Pacific international fisheries and oceans treaties in force today.
   Contact: Aaron Saunders, 202/224-1028; Steve Wackowski, 202/224-5122.
 
 