SEN. STEVENS ADVOCATES UPDATING UNIVERSAL SERVICE FUND
  Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska), Chairman of the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee, held two hearings this week to discuss Universal Service Fund (USF) reform. During these hearings, Sen. Stevens told his colleagues that he supports an expansion of the Fund's contribution base. Broadening the base of contributors could generate the funds needed to tackle communications challenges that particularly affect rural states, including Alaska.  
   Stevens told the Committee about the Fund's importance to rural areas. He said, "USF ensured that people living in high-cost areas pay the same amount for telephone access as those living in low-cost areas. The changing face of communications demands that we reexamine the way these funds are being spent and to what purposes. If there is a method in which a communication service is provided, connected by any system, that provider should pay into the Universal Service Fund." 
   During the hearings, Stevens also expressed concern about the Fund's ability to provide Alaskans with access to the Internet given the high cost of telephone service. "There are now about 150 villages in Alaska that don't have dial-up Internet. They get the Internet but they have to dial long distance and they get charged for the long distance call. We don't have cable in most of our state and many of the rural companies don't offer DSL service. Internet is available by satellite but it is expensive and it is not supported by the Universal Service Fund." 
   Stevens concluded, "In a competitive world we need to understand how we maintain America's technology position and what communications infrastructure we need to support that position, particularly in rural areas." 
   The two hearings held this week are part of a series of hearings being held by the Committee to evaluate advances in the communications industry that have taken place since the Telecommunications Act's passage in 1996. The USF is a federal program originally created to offset the cost of building and operating telecommunications networks in rural areas of the United States. Since its inception, the Fund has subsidized telecommunications providers that deliver various services. However, rapid advances in technology have brought about modes of communication that are not included in the Fund and the revenue base that allows the Fund to subsidize communication in rural areas has declined.
   Contact: Janel Anderson Causey, 202/224-5122; Courtney Boone, 202/224-1028. 
 
 