ON RECORD: SEN. STEVENS' STATEMENTS DURING WEEK OF FEB. 26
  On the controversy surrounding Walter Reed Army Medical Center 
   "I've had some very active conversations about that with several general officers and they are very disturbed about some of the reports?. Both Senator Inouye and I will be very interested in (future reports) about what are the deficiencies out there and what it's going to take to bring that up to snuff. There's no question about it - they've just been overloaded and it's been a managerial problem rather than an institutional problem. We believe that we need to have a better management scheme out there to take care of our people and their families." (2/27/07)  
  On ensuring Congress adequately funds the Department of Defense
   "I sincerely believe we will put up the money that's necessary to support the people in the field, both for their support and the equipment they need on an ongoing basis. By the way, if we don't, the President has the authority under the age-old concept of Food and Forage. He can take money from wherever it is to support people in the field. So anyone who tries to take it away from them is going to fail. We will support our forces in the field no matter what happens." (2/27/07)
  On his meeting with Governor Palin 
    "We had a very interesting discussion with Governor Palin and Ms. (Marty) Rutherford and the Governor's staff. They have been making the rounds here. The FERC people have told us that they are very interested in this approach of the Governor's. The concept that they have involved that puts state money up front - a half a billion dollars up front - as an incentive to get an applicant to move and move fast is a very interesting one. It's going to take some time to flush out, but I'm very pleased she's taken the time to come visit with us on it." (2/27/07)
  On Governor Palin's gas pipeline proposal
   "It's a new initiative. We're going to have to wait and see what the Legislature is going to do. I assume the Legislature is going to approve what she's suggesting. It's not an uncomplicated process, so we have to see how it unfolds?. We're behind her and hope it works." (2/28/07) 
  On the importance of passing transportation security measures as part of the Senate's consideration of S.4, a bill that implements recommendations of the 9/11 Commission 
   "In the five and a half years since the horrific events of September 11th, we have made many improvements in the security of our nation's transportation infrastructure and ensured communications interoperability. Our job is far from over, whether it's more improvements to be made or gaps to close. In matters of security, we must not become complacent - as our enemies adapt, so must we." (3/01/07)
   Contact: Aaron Saunders, 202/224-1028; Steve Wackowski, 202/224-5122. 
 
 