CHAIRMAN STEVENS INTRODUCES COMPREHENSIVE COMMUNICATIONS REFORM BILL
  Senate Commerce Committee Chairman Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) has introduced S. 2686, the Communications, Consumers' Choice, and Broadband Deployment Act of 2006. The legislation reforms existing communications laws to promote competition, cost savings for consumers, and the speedy deployment of broadband services to all Americans. It includes provisions that reform the Universal Service Fund (USF) and will expand the communications services available in Alaska. 
   "This measure is a working draft intended to stimulate discussion and is open for comments and suggestions for change. It attempts to strike a balance between competing industries, consumer groups, and local government," said Stevens. "This bill includes provisions throughout that will benefit consumers. It encourages competition and cost savings in the video market. It addresses some critical needs in rural America. And, it encourages deployment of broadband so that our nation can remain competitive."  
   S. 2686 contains several provisions that will directly affect Alaska. These provisions will reform the Universal Service Fund, allow small rural telecommunications carriers to offer video services, and increase the availability of satellite services where feasible. The legislation also encourages the expansion of wireless broadband and home networking services by freeing up unused broadcast spectrum. 
   Universal Service Reform 
   The Universal Service Fund is a federal program originally created to offset the cost of building and operating telecommunications networks in rural areas of the United States. Title II of S. 2686 requires every telecommunications, broadband, and IP-enabled voice service provider to pay into USF. This provision will expand the base of contributors and ensure there are sufficient funds available to meet communications demands in rural areas across the country, including Alaska. This bill also stipulates that carriers receiving USF support must provide broadband access within five years of the bill's enactment. 
   The bill also creates an annual fund of $500 million to address communications needs in rural areas. These funds will be used to deploy broadband to areas that currently do not have service, including rural areas in Alaska. 
   Streamlining Franchising Process 
   In many areas in Alaska, communications services are provided by telecommunications carriers, but currently these carriers must clear many hurdles to gain a local franchise. S. 2686 seeks to streamline this process by allowing small rural telecommunications carriers to enter the video services market. This step will increase competition and expand the services available to consumers at affordable prices. 
   Video Content 
   National Satellite 
   In the past, the programming and choice options that satellite companies have offered in the Lower 48 have not been available in Alaska or Hawaii. S. 2686 includes a provision that will ensure newly deployed satellites will provide those programming options in Alaska and Hawaii, if technically feasible. 
   Wireless Innovation Networks 
   Unlicensed White Spaces 
   In many U.S. markets, a portion of the spectrum allocated to television broadcasters goes unused. This spectrum is commonly referred to as "unlicensed white space." S. 2686 includes a provision that will allow unlicensed wireless devices to use this spectrum. In Anchorage alone, more than 150 MHz could be re-allocated for the use of these devices. 
   The Act also allows manufacturers to develop devices that utilize unlicensed white spaces. These devices will be certified by the FCC and will only operate on portions of the television spectrum not needed by broadcasters. The intention of this provision is to help bring wireless broadband and home networking to consumers at a lower cost, which is particularly important in remote Alaskan communities. Provisions have been included in the bill to ensure that there is no harmful interference with broadcast signals. 
   S. 2686 has been referred to the United States Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation for consideration. The full text of S. 2686, a summary of its provisions, and Senator Stevens' May 1, 2006 floor statement introducing this bill are available at www.stevens.senate.gov.
 
 