SEN. STEVENS INTRODUCES DISTRICT COURT NOMINEE
  Yesterday, Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) joined Sen. Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska) in appearing before the Senate Judiciary Committee to support the nomination of Tim Burgess to be U.S. District Court Judge for Alaska. Mr. Burgess is currently the U.S. Attorney for the District of Alaska. He appeared before the Senate Judiciary Committee as part of his confirmation process.  
   Since 1989, Mr. Burgess has served in the U.S. Attorney's Office for the District of Alaska; first, as an Assistant U.S. Attorney, and since 2001, as the U.S. Attorney for the District of Alaska. 
   Mr. Burgess also serves as the co-chair of the Alaska Rural Justice and Law Enforcement Commission. The Commission was established by Congress in 2004 to review federal, state, and local jurisdiction over civil and criminal matters in rural Alaska. Mr. Burgess and the other members of the Commission recently produced a draft report of suggested actions aimed at improving the quality of justice in rural Alaska. 
   At the nomination hearing, Senator Stevens introduced Mr. Burgess to his colleagues, stating, "Tim has served as our state's chief federal law enforcement officer with great distinction. As a former U.S. Attorney, I do appreciate his service there." 
   Senator Stevens further stated, "Tim is a devoted public servant and talented legal mind. His commitment to the rule of law led President Bush to nominate him to the position of U.S. District Court Judge for Alaska. I am confident Tim will approach this new position with the same dedication with which he has fulfilled his other assignments." 
   Mr. Burgess is married to Joanne Grace, and they have four children. The Burgess family resides in Anchorage. 
   Mr. Burgess earned his bachelor of arts degree from the University of Alaska Fairbanks and a master of business administration degree from the University of Alaska. He received his juris doctorate from Northeastern University Law School. 
   Senator Stevens hopes that the Senate Judiciary Committee will move through this process expeditiously and report Mr. Burgess' nomination to the Senate for confirmation.
 
 