SEN. STEVENS URGES SENATE TO QUICKLY PASS DEFENSE SPENDING BILL
  Senator Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) today urged his Senate colleagues to swiftly approve the Fiscal Year 2008 Department of Defense Appropriations Act (H.R. 3222). The legislation, which was unanimously approved by the Appropriations Committee on September 12, is currently being considered by the full Senate. The $459 billion bill funds a variety of essential military programs and projects, including operations in Iraq and Afghanistan.  
  Speaking on the Senate floor, Senator Stevens characterized the current delay in funding as a matter of "extreme urgency." He emphasized Congress' responsibility to support troops serving in the U.S. and abroad. H.R. 3222 includes funding for a 3.5-percent, across-the-board pay raise for military personnel. 
  "There are hundreds of thousands of men and women in uniform deployed throughout the world. They serve our country now in 154 countries and in our own country," said Senator Stevens. "Their bravery and dedication are extraordinary, and their sacrifices do not go unnoticed. We must not lose sight of our responsibility to support them in an expeditious manner and completely. These people depend on us and it's our job to see to it they have the supplies, ammunition, and equipment they need to carry out their orders."
  Senator Stevens stressed that the bill helps ensure that the Department of the Defense has adequate funds for military readiness. 
  "Each year the Department of Defense faces the critical challenge of balancing the cost of maintaining high levels of readiness - being ready to respond to any call, before it occurs and whenever it is necessary," said Senator Stevens. "This means we must adequately invest in those technologies that will prepare us for the future, prepare us for the threats of tomorrow, as well as conduct the activities ongoing in those 154 countries and, in particular, in Iraq and Afghanistan. The bill that Senator Inouye and I present today reflects the prudent balance among those challenges."
  Senator Stevens, however, expressed concern that the bill does not, for the first time in four years, include supplemental funding (called a "bridge fund") that covers military expenses during the transition between fiscal years. This fund would allow the Department of Defense to pay for critical equipment and supplies, such as the new MRAPs.
   Contact: Aaron Saunders, 202/224-1028; Steve Wackowski, 202/224-5122.
 
 