SEN. STEVENS PUSHES FOR INCREASED INTERNET SAFETY FOR CHILDREN
  Senator Ted Stevens (R-Alaska), Vice Chairman of the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee, today called for increased Internet safety for children during a panel discussion on the need to empower parents to protect children online. Federal Communications Commissioner Deborah Tate also spoke at the event. Panelists included Judi Westberg Warren, President of Web Wise Kids, Marsali Hancock, President of Internet Keep Safe Coalition, Don Knezek, CEO of the International Society for Technology and Education, and Nancy McBride, National Safety Director of the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children.  
  The Senate Commerce Committee last week approved legislation sponsored by Senator Stevens and Chairman Daniel Inouye (D-Hawaii), S. 1965 - the Protecting Kids in the 21st Century Act, to bring parents, industry, law enforcement, and educators together to address comprehensive online protections. The bill is cosponsored by Senators Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-Texas), Bill Nelson (D-Fla.), Mark Pryor (D-Ark.), John D. Rockefeller (D-W.Va), Kit Bond (R-Mo.), John Thune (R-S.D.), David Vitter (R-La.), Olympia Snowe (R-Maine), Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska), John Kerry (D-Mass.), Thad Cochran (D-Miss.) and Chuck Hagel (R-Neb.). The measure now awaits consideration by the full Senate.
  SENATOR STEVENS MADE THE FOLLOWING REMARKS:
  "According to the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children, one in seven children online (10 to 17-years-old) has received a sexual solicitation or approach over the Internet. Given this rising concern, the attorneys general from all 50 states have joined forces to pressure Internet social-networking sites to put in place greater parental controls and age-verification tools. 
  "To address this alarming trend, the Senate Commerce Committee recently reported out S. 1965, "Protecting Children in the 21st Century Act," a bipartisan bill that I introduced with Commerce Committee Chairman Daniel Inouye. The bill currently has 12 co-sponsors and emphasizes education, empowers parents and improves enforcement.
  "Specifically, the bill requires schools that receive E-Rate funds to offer age appropriate education regarding online behavior, including social networking, chat rooms, and cyberbullying awareness and response. The schools would have to include this education as part of their Internet safety policy.
  "This bill would create an interagency working group to identify and encourage technologies and initiatives to help parents protect their children from unwanted content. 
  "It would authorize $10 million ($5 million in FY 2008 and FY 2009) to promote online safety and educates parents in their efforts to protect their children from harm on the Internet. It would also increase enforcement penalties and improve the investigative ability of the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children. 
  "We all believe that the Internet is a valuable resource for children, and in my state we have high computer literacy because of our isolation and because of the need to use the Internet to enhance our education capabilities. But it is vital that our children are educated about its potential dangers. I thank the panelists for their interest in this important issue."
   Contact: Aaron Saunders, 202/224-1028; Steve Wackowski, 202/224-5122.
 
 