COMMITTEE APPROVES SEN. STEVENS' ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES SAFETY PROVISION
  The Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation today approved bill language sponsored by Senator Ted Stevens (R-Alaska), Vice Chairman of the Committee, to require all companies and manufacturers that market and sell all-terrain vehicles (ATVs) in the United States to meet basic product safety standards. This provision would also help ensure that adequate training and safety information is provided to consumers.  
  Senator Stevens' ATV safety language was included as an amendment to S. 2045, the Consumer Product Safety Commission Reform Act of 2007, which the Committee passed today. The amendment is similar to ATV legislation (S. 1815) that Senator Stevens introduced this summer. 
  "ATVs that do not meet stringent product safety standards create serious hazards and pose grave dangers for users, especially children," said Senator Stevens. "This amendment would protect consumers by requiring ATV companies, both domestic and foreign, to comply with uniform safety standards and sales practices. This is an important first step in reducing ATV-related accidents and deaths."
  Earlier this summer, the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) issued a warning to American consumers about ATVs manufactured in China that do not meet United States safety requirements. The CPSC's warning focused on several specific safety features missing from the imported Chinese ATVs, such as front brakes, parking brakes, and the ability of the vehicle to be started in gear. Senator Stevens' provision would directly address imported ATVs like those targeted by the CPSC. 
  The Commerce Committee passed two other bills sponsored by Senator Stevens during today's mark-up. The Community Broadband Act of 2007 would allow municipalities to help fill existing voids in broadband access and enhance public safety by expanding high-speed Internet services available to their residents. This measure would specifically set forth that no state regulation or requirement shall prevent a public provider from offering broadband services; prohibit a municipality from discriminating against competing private providers; and provide the public with notice and an opportunity to be heard before a municipality provides broadband to the public. If passed, the bill could increase access to affordable broadband services for cities and towns across Alaska and the U.S. 
  The Commerce Committee also approved legislation to eliminate the five-year automatic removal of telephone numbers registered in the federal "Do-Not-Call" list. The bill, championed by Senator Stevens and Senator Byron Dorgan (D-N.D.), would create a permanent registry maintained by the Federal Trade Commission. Under existing law, each number in the Do-Not-Call registry will expire five years after its initial registration causing nearly 52 million numbers nationwide to be removed from the list before September 30, 2008. Currently, more than 209,000 numbers in Alaska are part of the Do-Not-Call registry. 
  All three bills passed by the Committee today now await full Senate consideration.
   Contact: Aaron Saunders, 202/224-1028; Steve Wackowski, 202/224-5122.
 
 