SEN. STEVENS STRESSES NEED FOR PANDEMIC INFLUENZA PREPAREDNESS
  At a hearing held by the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies, Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) argued that there is an urgent need to improve pandemic influenza preparedness at the federal, state, and local levels. Stevens emphasized the need for additional resources in Alaska, which is a central hub for migratory birds and international travel.  
   Stevens told the subcommittee about meetings he held with officials from the State of Alaska Department of Health and Human Services and the University of Alaska regarding the potential impact of pandemic flu in Alaska. During these meetings, Stevens learned that Alaska does not have a single laboratory capable of analyzing tests that detect avian flu in migratory birds. Stevens shared his frustration regarding the lack of testing facilities in Alaska with Dr. Julie Gerberding, Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and Dr. John Agwunobi, Assistant Secretary of Health for the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. 
   "When I was home I had a meeting in Alaska with the people who are doing the testing of the migratory birds. I was very surprised that there was no laboratory in our state that can analyze those tests," said Stevens. "They go down to Michigan...then down to CDC headquarters and about two months later, three months later, we find out whether these birds that have just come through are infected Why is there no laboratory up there?" 
   Stevens told Dr. Gerberding and Dr. Agwunobi that Alaska's geographic location requires a laboratory that can perform rapid testing. "There is a massive amount of these birds that come into our state," said Stevens. "In addition to that, half the cargo that comes in by air comes through Anchorage now. We have people from Asia coming through on our passenger planes. I find it strange to think that it could take so long to deal with this testing." 
   Senator Stevens also strongly encouraged Assistant Secretary Agwunobi to learn more about the impact of the limited liability provision that was contained in the Fiscal Year 2006 Department of Defense Appropriations bill. The provision limits the liability of drug and vaccine manufacturers, which will enable the industry to produce avian flu vaccine in the United States. 
   At the end of the hearing, Stevens reiterated the urgent need for preparedness at every level of government. He said, "I don't think we have enough of a sense of urgency...The birds that come across the Pacific, our Eskimo and Native people rely on them for food... I just think that that when we look at the degree of preparation we have right now... it is just woefully inadequate... I do hope that we can find some way, beyond trying to get the money, to get the public aware of the threat that may face this country."
   Contact: Courtney Boone, 202/224-1028; Janel Anderson, 202/224-5122.
 
 