SEN. STEVENS ENCOURAGES FEDERAL GOVERNMENT TO WORK WITH TOURISM INDUSTRY TO BRING MORE VISITORS TO AMERICA
  Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska)on Wednesday, January 31, committed to working with leaders in the tourism industry to help increase the number of international travelers who visit the United States. The Senator's statements came at a Senate Commerce Committee hearing entitled "Promoting Travel to America: An Examination of Economic and Security Concerns."  
   Senator Stevens is Vice Chairman of the Senate Commerce Committee, which has jurisdiction over tourism issues. During today's hearing, Senator Stevens emphasized the importance of tourism in the United States, particularly in Alaska. The travel and tourism industry is the second largest private sector employer in the State. More than 24,000 workers in Alaska are employed by the industry, which contributes over $2 billion to the State's economy each year. 
   "Senator (Daniel) Inouye and I look forward to working with you because certainly our two states are very heavily supported by the travel and tourism industry," said Senator Stevens, who will be a lead Republican in addressing tourism-related issues during the 110th Congress. "We've seen the decline (in foreign travelers) that you've mentioned, and we'd like very much to work with you to bring back this industry and help it bloom." 
   Senator Stevens also urged a balance between promoting foreign travel to the U.S. and maintaining strict transportation security procedures that keep Americans safe. 
   "While attention to transportation security is vital for our country, it is equally important that our security not have the unintended consequence of driving away international visitors and commerce," said Senator Stevens. 
   Today's hearing coincided with the release of "A Blueprint to Discover America," a report released by the travel and tourism industry's Discover America Partnership. This document outlines the industry's plan to increase foreign travel to the United States. According to the Department of Commerce, the U.S. is ranked third among top destinations in the world, following Spain and France, but claims only 6.1 percent of the worldwide share. As recently as 1992, the U.S. attracted 9.4 percent of all international tourist arrivals throughout the world. 
   The Discover America Partnership's report includes three general proposals to fix the country's travel problems: repairing the U.S. visa issuance process; modernizing America's ports of entry; and creating a permanent tourism promotional campaign. 
   Earlier in January, Senator Stevens joined a bipartisan group of Senators and Congressmen in introducing the Secure Travel and Counterterrorism Partnership Act. This legislation would extend 90-day visa-free travel privileges to the United States' allies in the War on Terror. The measure is designed to augment the number of countries in the Visa Waiver Program, which could in turn increase the number of tourists and business travelers who visit the United States.
 
 