SEN. STEVENS CALLS FOR AGGRESSIVE APPROACH TO PROTECT ARCTIC OCEAN FISHERIES
  During today's Senate Commerce Committee hearing on international fisheries, Senator Ted Stevens (R-Alaska), Vice Chairman of the Committee, called for more aggressive protections of Arctic Ocean fisheries and re-affirmed his commitment to ensure that the United States has every authority, resource, and tool needed to combat illegal, unreported, and unregulated (IUU) fishing. Senator Stevens noted that despite all previous efforts there are still loopholes that allow IUU fishing which threaten Arctic Ocean fisheries. 
   "I do think we have a chance to show what scientific management could bring as an example to the other countries of the Arctic - what can be done if they really assert their authority to protect the fisheries resources of the Arctic Ocean," said Senator Stevens. "If we are not careful, if there is unregulated access to the Arctic Ocean through the Bering Straits, we are going to be in trouble. We must find ways to limit access to vessels that could do great harm to our fisheries resources."  
   Last December, legislation introduced by Senator Stevens was signed into law which requires the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) to maintain a list of IUU fishing vessels around the world. This will allow the United States to take action against these vessels if they illegally fish in our waters. Senator Stevens also drafted a Senate-passed resolution calling for an end to the harmful foreign fishing subsidies that lead to IUU fishing. In addition, Congress approved a Stevens-sponsored resolution urging the United States to prepare for the future management of Arctic Ocean fisheries. 
   "Despite these efforts there are still loopholes that allow IUU fish to come into the U.S., and this must stop," said Senator Stevens in an opening statement submitted for the record. "I am currently preparing a bill that would strengthen the laws that make it illegal to trade in fish or fish products harvested from IUU fishing. This bill would strengthen civil and criminal penalties and establish a strong and effective inter-agency International Fisheries Enforcement Program." 
   Deputy Secretary of State John Negroponte testified that the United States must join the Law of the Sea Convention in order to combat IUU fishing. It is estimated that IUU fishing is a $6 to $8 billion a year industry. 
   "The Law of the Sea Convention is widely accepted as the legal framework under which all international fisheries must operate," said Deputy Secretary Negroponte. "Acceding to the Convention will give us greater leverage in negotiating on these matters, particularly in our efforts to eliminate illegal, unreported, and unregulated fishing." 
   "I think it's time we really worked on an aggressive approach to protecting the Arctic," said Senator Stevens. "It's the one area of the world that could be completely controlled if we had an agreement from all nations. Ratification of the Law of the Sea Treaty would enable us to have greater control of the areas above our country." 
   At several points during today's hearing, witnesses praised Senator Stevens for his long history of promoting scientific management of the world's fisheries. 
   "I want to first of all echo Mr. Benton's sentiments, thanking you for your extraordinary leadership over the last two decades," said Lisa Speer, Water and Oceans Program Director for the Natural Resources Defense Council. "In terms of the fish stocks agreement, the drift net moratorium, the recent UN General Assembly resolution for regulation of currently unregulated bottom fisheries throughout the world - all of those and many more major international instruments to govern high seas fishing have resulted directly from your leadership. And the world owes you a big thanks."
   Contact: Aaron Saunders, 202/224-1028; Steve Wackowski, 202/224-5122.
 
 