SEN. STEVENS, MURKOWSKI INTRODUCE RESOLUTION TO PROTECT ARCTIC FISHERIES
  Senator Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) today introduced a joint resolution directing the United States to initiate international discussions and to negotiate with other nations an agreement for managing fish stocks in the Arctic Ocean. Senator Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska) and a bipartisan group of 10 Senators are original cosponsors of the measure.  
  The resolution emphasizes a science-based approach in conserving migratory and transboundary fish stocks in the Arctic. Currently, industrial fishing in the Arctic Ocean has been limited by the distribution of fish habitat and short fishing seasons. Due to impacts of climate change, shifting ocean temperatures may cause fish to enter new habitats. In addition, due to ice rescission, fishing vessels will have greater access to previously impenetrable areas of the Arctic. 
  "Although there is much to learn about climate change patterns, the Arctic Ocean and its fish habitats are changing," Senator Stevens said. "Fish stocks may colonize this ocean in the coming years, and we need to act now to put appropriate international fisheries agreements in place. Alaska Native communities must be involved in the process because they depend so heavily on the sustainability of these species." 
  "Conserving our fish stocks requires action both domestically and internationally," said Senator Murkowski. "The North Pacific Fisheries Management Council is taking action to develop a fisheries management plan for the Chukchi and Beauford Seas. Congress must now ensure that steps are taken to create an international framework for the management of fisheries in Arctic waters."
  "The effects of climate change on Arctic marine ecosystems is a concern to everyone who lives and works in the north country," said David Benton, Executive Director of the Marine Conservation Alliance. "Senators Stevens and Murkowski have once again stepped up to the plate for conservation, and for the people who depend on the resources of the Arctic for their way of life. The United States needs to be a leader to the rest of the world, and the resolution lays out a plan for that leadership. The Marine Conservation Alliance supports this conservation-oriented, precautionary approach to resource management in the face of an uncertain future for the Arctic." 
  This resolution also calls upon the U.S. to lead international efforts to develop fisheries management for the Arctic Ocean to end illegal, unreported, and unregulated fishing (IUU). IUU fishing continues to undermine fisheries worldwide, and Senator Stevens has vowed to address this issue during the 110th Congress.
   Contact: Aaron Saunders, 202/224-1028; Steve Wackowski, 202/224-5122.  
 
 