ON RECORD: SEN. STEVENS' STATEMENTS DURING WEEK OF APRIL 30
  On eliminating harmful subsidies that many foreign governments give to their fishing industries
   "The decline of fisheries resources around the world is intensified by the outdated and mistaken assumption - still held by many nations - that our oceans' productivity is infinite and that fish stocks can be harvested without consequence. In the United States, we know this is not the case. While we once used subsidies to increase our harvesting capacity, we have since eliminated this practice." (5/3/07)  
  On his support for Hawaiian Senator Daniel Akaka's legislation to provide a process for federal recognition of a Native Hawaiian governing entity
  "(This bill) would provide Native Hawaiians with many of the same opportunities ANCSA offered to Alaska Natives. Although these bills are structured differently, their objectives are the same. (This legislation) would create a framework to help Native Hawaiians address their unique circumstances, afford them greater control over their natural resources and assets, and, in my view, right a long-standing wrong. Our federal government has a responsibility to promote the welfare of all indigenous peoples." (5/3/07)
  On the importance of legislation to increase fuel efficiency standards for automobiles
   "The issue of the fuel economy of our cars and light trucks is significant as our country faces an increasing energy crisis? (We are trying to) develop an approach that would not only advance our national security interests (by) reducing our dependence on foreign oil sources, but also an approach that will avoid unintended consequences that would adversely affect the auto industry and consumer choice." (5/3/07)
  On Congress working on a revised emergency supplemental bill 
   "I hope it will go along very fast. I think it should. I think the sooner we get it done, the (sooner) things will calm down around here." (5/1/07)
   Contact: Aaron Saunders, 202/224-1028; Steve Wackowski, 202/224-5122. 
 
 