SENS. STEVENS, MURKOWSKI INTRODUCE RESOLUTION TO CONDEMN HARMFUL FOREIGN FISHING PRACTICES
  Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska), Vice Chairman of the Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee, today introduced a Senate resolution urging an end the harmful subsidies that many foreign governments direct to their fishing industries. This measure is co-sponsored by Sen. Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska).  
  Senator Stevens noted that the problems caused by industrial fishing subsidies affect not only global fisheries resources, but also coastal communities that depend on fishing for sustenance and their economic well-being. These subsidies enable a number of unsustainable harvesting practices and also distort trade.
  "Fisheries resources, especially large predatory species and other commercially valuable fish stocks, have been overexploited by foreign industrial fishing fleets for years," said Senator Stevens. "Many countries with subsidized industrial fishing fleets have sought to exploit not only their own waters, but also the high seas. Not surprisingly, those countries engaged in illegal, unregulated, and unreported or (IUU) fishing are often the same ones that use subsidies to expand their fleets. These subsidies, and the IUU fishing associated with them, must end."
  "Fishing subsidies have lead directly to illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing," said Senator Murkowski. "This impacts not only our fishing economy, but plays a major role in the overcapitalization and overfishing by foreign fleets."
  The United States and several other countries are now leading an international initiative against harmful fisheries subsidies. Last month, the United States Trade Representative presented a proposal to the World Trade Organization (WTO), which would eliminate this type of subsidy among WTO member nations. This proposal is now being negotiated in the Doha Development Round. 
  The Senate resolution introduced by Senator Stevens is also co-sponsored by Senate Commerce Committee Chairman Daniel Inouye (D-Hawaii) and Senators Thad Cochran (R-Miss.), Maria Cantwell (D-Wash.), Olympia Snowe (R-Maine), Trent Lott (R-Miss.), Patty Murray (D-Wash.), Barbara Boxer (D-Calif.), John Sununu (R-N.H.), Mary Landrieu (D-La.), Susan Collins (R-Maine) and John Kerry (D-Mass.).
   Contact: Aaron Saunders, 202/224-1028; Steve Wackowski, 202/224-5122.
 
 