STATE DIRECTOR NASH RETIRES AS STATE DIRECTOR, EGAN PROMOTED
  After 29 years of service in Senator Ted Stevens' (R-Alaska) office, State Director Marie Nash retired on October 31, 2005. Jim Egan, caseworker and staff assistant for Senator Stevens, has been promoted to fill her position. 
   Ms. Nash, originally of Ugashik, worked for Stevens in his Washington, D.C. and Anchorage offices for a collective 29 years. She helped Senator Stevens open his first U.S. Senate office in 1969. Ms. Nash left to join Governor Jay Hammond's administration, where she served as special assistant to Boards and Commissions and as deputy commissioner of the Alaska Department of Community and Regional Affairs. Nash returned to Washington, D.C. in 1980. 
   Throughout her years of service with Stevens, Nash has served Alaskans in variety of roles, including as coordinator of Stevens' high school intern program. Most recently, as state director, Ms. Nash coordinated Stevens' offices in Anchorage, Bethel, Fairbanks, Juneau, Kenai, Ketchikan, and the Matanuska-Susitna Valley.
   Senator Stevens made the following remarks regarding Marie Nash's retirement: 
   "Over the years, I have relied on Marie's counsel and friendship. She is a great public servant. She has been generous with her time, energy, and wisdom, and her generosity has earned the respect of all who know her. I will greatly miss having Marie as a valued member of my staff."
   Jim Egan has been promoted to state director after serving as a caseworker and staff assistant in Senator Stevens' Anchorage office since 1998. As state director, he will coordinate Stevens' seven state offices. Egan will also continue to manage casework associated with constituent problems with federal agencies.
   Egan, an Anchorage native, is a 1992 graduate of East Anchorage High School. He studied political science at Gonzaga University in Spokane, Washington. 
   Egan's wife Alicia is also an Anchorage native. They and their two children reside in Anchorage.
   Contact: Courtney Boone, 202/224-1028.
 
 