SENATE PASSES 2008 DEFENSE SPENDING BILL
  The U.S. Senate late yesterday approved the Fiscal Year 2008 Defense Appropriations Act (H.R. 3222), which provides substantial funding secured by Senator Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) for Alaska military projects. The $459.6 billion legislation also includes funding for a 3.5-percent, across-the-board pay raise for military personnel. 
  "Congress has no greater responsibility than supporting our Armed Forces," said Senator Stevens. "Their sacrifices are many, and the men and women serving today truly are the new 'Greatest Generation.' The Senate's passage of this measure demonstrates our commitment to those who risk their lives for our country each day."
  "Congress must now act swiftly to conference the House and Senate versions of this appropriations bill. Without approval of this measure, we diminish the military readiness of our forces. We owe it to our brave soldiers to ensure that they have the necessary supplies and equipment to defend our nation," said Senator Stevens.
  A significant portion of the funding directed to Alaska in H.R. 3222 is focused on enhancing joint training capabilities and critical military infrastructure. 
  For example, Senator Stevens secured approximately $55 million for upgrades to the Red Flag Pacific Alaskan Range Complex (PARC), which provides training for home units in Alaska, visiting U.S. units, and international allies. Specifically, these PARC funds will improve communications equipment, training range infrastructure, and security and target systems. It will also be used to procure advanced training devices and simulated air defense systems to provide a state-of-the-art training environment for members of the U.S. Air Force and coalition partners.
  "We continue to invest in upgrading our bases and training ranges to ensure that they provide realistic joint training opportunities," said Senator Stevens. "The centerpiece is the Pacific Alaskan Range Complex, which offers tremendous joint and combined training experiences. This bill makes significant investments in enhancing the range's capabilities, assuring that it remains the best training area in the world. It is essential that we improve the operational readiness and deployability of our Alaskan forces while ensuring that they are positioned to deal with potential threats to our national security."
 
 