SENS. STEVENS, LANDRIEU ANNOUNCE COASTAL EROSION FIELD HEARING IN ANCHORAGE
  Senator Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) and Senator Mary Landrieu (D- La.) have announced a Disaster Recovery Subcommittee field hearing on coastal erosion in Anchorage on October 11, 2007. The Loussac Library will host the event, which begins at 9 a.m. 
   Senators Landrieu and Stevens serve as the Chair and Ranking Member of the Disaster Recovery Subcommittee of the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee. 
   "Dealing with the effects of global climate change is one of the most immediate issues facing our nation," said Senator Stevens. "In Alaska, we have severe storms that have taken a significant toll on many of our coastal villages. I am pleased that Senator Landrieu will join us in Alaska to learn more about these erosion problems and discuss what role the federal government should play in the prevention of and recovery from future disasters." 
  "Though thousands of miles may separate our states, Louisiana and Alaska each face the challenges of protecting our coastal communities from erosion and standing ready for when disaster strikes," Senator Landrieu said. "Senator Stevens has been an effective partner in helping secure Louisiana's coast and in working with me on our subcommittee to improve our nation's response to future disasters like Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. I am looking forward to seeing how coastal Alaska meets the challenges we share, and thank Senator Stevens for inviting me to visit."
   The witness for the hearing are: 
   Panel I: (Audio at http://stevens.senate.gov/misc/erosion1.mp3)
  Brigadier General John W. Peabody, Commander and Division Engineer for the Pacific Ocean Division, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
   Mr. John Madden, Director, Division of Homeland Security and Emergency Management for the State of Alaska
   Ms. Susan Reinertson, Regional Administrator, FEMA Region X 
  Panel II: (Audio at http://stevens.senate.gov/misc/erosion2.mp3)
   Ms. Colleen Swan, Tribal Administrator, Kivalina
  Mr. Stanley Tom, Tribal Administrator, Newtok
  Mr. Tony Weyiouanna Sr., Village Transportation Planner, Shishmaref
  Mr. Steve Ivanoff, Transportation Planner, Unalakleet
  Mr. Edward Itta, Mayor, North Slope Borough
   Disaster Recovery Subcommittee
   As Ranking Member of the Disaster Recovery Subcommittee, Senator Stevens has vowed to focus attention to the 184 Alaskan villages struggling to prevent and recover from serious flooding and erosion problems. More generally, the subcommittee oversees the coordination of the long-term recovery plans and activities provided by all federal agencies, non-governmental organizations, the private sector, and state and local governments. It also conducts oversight of the recovery provisions of the Robert T. Stafford Act, which requires the federal government to assist state and local governments' relief efforts in the event of an emergency or disaster. Elements of the National Response Plan, including the disaster response functions of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, is under the jurisdiction of this new subcommittee as well.
   Contact: Aaron Saunders, 202/224-1028; Steve Wackowski, 202/224-5122.
 
 