SEN. STEVENS SPEAKS AT WALDEN POINT ROAD DEDICATION
  Senator Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) today joined military and local officials in a ribbon-cutting ceremony for the Walden Point Road. Also known as "Operation Alaskan Road," this project began in 1997 and has now constructed 14.5 miles of drivable road between the town of Metlakatla and a new ferry terminal at the north end of Annette Island.  
   "This project represents more than a two-lane road and two new ferry terminals - it will serve as a path to future development and renewed economic growth for Metlakatla," said Senator Stevens. "At long last, you will have reliable access to improved medical treatment, greater employment opportunities, and all of the goods and services sold in Ketchikan." 
   The Walden Point Road is the result of close collaboration between the U.S. military, the Metlakatla Indian Community, the Bureau of Indian Affairs, the State of Alaska, and the Federal Highway Administration. This project has enabled the Department of Defense to train more than 11,000 military personnel, many of whom are now putting their skills and experience to use in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
   "The Walden Point Road is the latest in a long line of projects facilitated by the military's strong presence in our state. Given the rough terrain and short construction season involved, its construction represents a tremendous feat," said Senator Stevens. "Operation Alaskan Road has also been an excellent training exercise. I'm told units from every branch of the Reserves, and from a number of different states, came together to complete the mission. We owe these men and women a debt of gratitude for the time, effort, and expertise they've committed to this project. It isn't often that we can train for war and improve our people's conditions at the same time." 
   The Metlakatla Indian Community (MIC) has sought to build this road for nearly 60 years. After being approached by MIC, Senator Stevens helped formulate a plan to ensure its completion. The inspiration came during the Senator's trip to Honduras, where he observed American service members helping local residents build roads in and around their communities. Upon returning home, Senator Stevens approached the military about this project, and the process began shortly thereafter. 
   Construction of the road is to be completed by the end of August, with the retrograde to be finished by July 2008.
   Contact: Aaron Saunders, 202/224-1028; Steve Wackowski, 202/224-5122. 
 
 