DELEGATION RECOGNIZES ANNIVERSARY OF ALASKA STATEHOOD
  The Alaska Congressional Delegation has introduced a resolution recognizing and celebrating the 50th anniversary of the entry of Alaska into the Union as the 49th State. S. Res. 49 sponsored by Sens. Ted Stevens and Lisa Murkowski, and H. Res. 127 sponsored by Rep. Don Young were introduced this past week. Alaska's 50th Anniversary will be celebrated in January 2009. In 1949 the Alaska Statehood Committee was formed to strengthen efforts toward statehood. July 7, 2008, marks the 50th anniversary of the enactment of the Alaska Statehood Act as approved by the United States Congress and signed by President Dwight D. Eisenhower. Alaska officially entered into the Union on January 3, 1959.  
   "History has proven those who criticized William Seward's purchase - and those who opposed statehood - wrong. With the full rights and opportunities granted to the states in our Union, Alaska has more than made good on this investment - the federal revenue from the development of our resources has repaid this investment hundreds of times over," said Senator Stevens. "Now our ability to fulfill our full potential depends on the willingness of those who serve in Congress to provide us with the opportunities and support given to other states when they were in similar stages of their development. On this anniversary of statehood, we share our hope that - once again - we will find friends in Congress and elsewhere that will help us fulfill our state's potential." 
   "It's hard to believe we are turning 50 already," said Congressman for All Alaska Don Young. "It seems as though just yesterday we were fighting to be recognized as a part of the United States and here we are today as one of the most prosperous states in the Union! We have made a lot of progress as a state, and we must continue to make more. We are still behind the rest of the country in terms of our infrastructure and land use; however we are making great strides all the time. I have been the Congressman for Alaska for 34 years so far and I look forward to the challenge of continuously making it better for its people. I am very proud to call Alaska my home and celebrate this anniversary of its statehood along with my colleagues and my constituents." 
   "As we reach this milestone, we can reflect on the frontier attitude of Alaska's pioneers who have helped shape a vibrant, productive and culturally-rich society," said Senator Murkowski. "I look forward to working with the next generation of Alaska pioneers that will help write a new chapter in our state's history."
 
 