SEN. STEVENS PRAISES SENATE PASSAGE OF LEGISLATION TO IMPLEMENT THE U.S.-RUSSIA POLAR BEAR TREATY
  The United States-Russia Polar Bear Conservation and Management Implementation Act (S. 2013) has been unanimously approved by the U.S. Senate. This legislation was introduced by Commerce Committee Chairman Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska). It enforces existing provisions of the Agreement between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Russian Federation on the Conservation and Management of the Alaska-Chukotka Polar Bear Population, a bilateral treaty commonly referred to as the Polar Bear Treaty. S. 2013 is co-sponsored by Commerce Committee Co-Chairman Sen. Daniel Inouye (D-Hawaii) and Sen. Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska).  
   Stevens applauded the Senate's passage of S. 2013. "This bill supports the conservation of our U.S. and Russian polar bear populations and the historical traditions of indigenous peoples in the Arctic region," he said. "The polar bears that migrate between our two nations will benefit from the added protections and conservation efforts provided in this bill." 
   Stevens' legislation amends the Marine Mammal Protection Act by adding provisions that implement and enforce the Polar Bear Treaty. S. 2013 also establishes a process for appointing one representative of the U.S. government and one representative of the Native people of Alaska to serve on the U.S. and Russian Polar Bear Commission. This Commission will enforce the conservation and management agreements that govern the U.S.-Russia polar bear population. 
   Upon passage of S. 2013, the Senate adopted an amendment that made adjustments to the authorization language originally contained in the bill when it was approved by the Senate Commerce Committee in November 2005. The amendment authorizes $1 million for the Secretary of the Interior, $150,000 for the Polar Bear Commission, and $150,000 for the Alaskan Cooperative Management Program to oversee conservation management and subsistence harvests in Alaska. These amounts are authorized annually for fiscal years 2006 through 2010. 
   The U.S.-Russia Polar Bear Treaty was completed and signed by both countries on October 16, 2000, but enforcement of the treaty was contingent upon the passage of S. 2013. The Russian Federation has already appointed its representatives to the Polar Bear Commission. The Russian government has also indicated that once the U.S. fully ratified the treaty, it would promptly do the same.
 
 