SEN. STEVENS ENCOURAGES INCREASED AUTOMOBILE FUEL ECONOMY
  Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) on Tuesday, March 6, emphasized the importance of conservation as part of a three-pronged approach to reducing the United States' dependence on foreign oil. The Senator's statements came at a Senate Commerce Committee oversight hearing on the Bush Administration's Corporate Average Fuel Economy program. 
  "The issue of fuel economy of our cars and light trucks is significant as our country faces an energy crisis," Senator Stevens said in his written statement. "The September 11 terrorist attacks and the current struggles in the Middle East have brought into focus the need to reduce our dependence on foreign oil. But addressing this problem will require a combination of initiatives. Conservation, domestic production, and the development of alternative energy sources are all part of the solution." 
  In January, Senator Stevens introduced S. 183, the Improved Passenger Automobile Fuel Economy Act, which would make clear the Department of Transportation's authority to reform fuel economy standards for passenger cars. The legislation would require that the domestic passenger car fleet achieve a minimum fuel economy of 40 miles per gallon by model year 2017. 
  At today's hearing, Senator Stevens encouraged Nicole Nason, head of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, to set specific goals in requiring cars and trucks to be more fuel efficient. 
  "It is my feeling, Ms. Nason, we ought to do what President Reagan did - set the goals out further and hope people will work towards achievement and give some discretion to the industry if it is needed later. But goals ought to be firm right now," said Senator Stevens. 
  Senator Stevens is also a co-sponsor of Senator Lisa Murkowski's (R-Alaska) Renewable Energy, Fuel Reduction, and Economic Stabilization and enHancement (REFRESH) Act of 2007. This energy efficiency legislation is designed to promote the development of additional forms of renewable energy and would pave the way for improved fuel consumption by vehicles. The REFRESH Act would reduce carbon dioxide emissions from fossil fuel usage by approximately 530 million metric tons in the United States by 2025 - a seven percent decrease over what emissions otherwise may be that year.
   Contact: Aaron Saunders, 202/224-1028; Steve Wackowski, 202/224-5122.  
 
 