SEN. STEVENS VOTES TO APPROVE NEGROPONTE AS U.S. AMBASSADOR TO IRAQ
  Today Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) voted to approve President George W. Bush's nomination of John D. Negroponte to be the U.S. Ambassador to Iraq. The Senate approved the nomination by a vote of 95 to 3. 
   Prior to the vote, Senator Stevens made the following statement in support of Mr. Negroponte:
   Thank you very much, Mr. President. I do appreciate the opportunity to discuss my very good friend, John Negroponte, and to support his nomination to be the United States Ambassador to Iraq. 
   John and I have known each other since 1977 with his appointment as Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Oceans and Fisheries Affairs with the rank of Ambassador. Because he handled several fisheries negotiations which were very vital to Alaska, John was a frequent visitor to our State. In 1978, John negotiated a breakthrough agreement with the Government of Japan which provided crucial protection for Alaska salmon stocks from Japanese high seas fishing fleets. That agreement provided countless benefits to the Alaskan fishing community which endure to this day. 
   I've had the pleasure of working with John in his subsequent assignments: as Ambassador to Honduras; as Assistant Secretary for Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs, as Ambassador to the Philippines and more recently as U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations. In each situation, I was honored to be able to witness first hand his ability to manage large and complex diplomatic missions and to observe his effectiveness and sensitivity in dealing with his foreign counterparts. 
   Educated at Yale, John Negroponte speaks five languages fluently - something that I consider a true asset for the position that he will occupy.
   Mr. President, I believe President Bush, on the recommendation of Secretary of State Powell, has chosen extremely wisely in his selection of John Negroponte to be our nation's representative in Iraq. I also believe that at this point in time in our nation's history, it is vital to have a person like John Negroponte at the helm in Iraq - we need his expertise to help guide us through the next few months. I can tell you without any question, this man is one of the most distinguished public servants that I have had the honor of knowing and serving with. I know his family and I know this man. With the unfortunate development we've recently had in terms of the conduct of some of the people involved in the prisons in Iraq, I am confident that John Negroponte is the man to represent our government in Iraq. He will represent us well and we will be very well served by his confirmation. I urge the Senate to quickly confirm John Negroponte as our Ambassador to Iraq.
   Contact: Courtney Schikora, 202/224-1028.
 
 