SENS. STEVENS, MURKOWSKI ANNOUNCE TAX CREDIT ALLOCATIONS TO ALASKA BUSINESS FINANCING PROGRAMS
  Sens. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) and Lisa Murkowski (R- Alaska) announced today that Alaska Growth Capital BIDCO has received a $35 million allocation of tax credits through the New Markets Tax Credit (NMTC) Program administered by the Department of the Treasury's Community Development Financial Institutions (CDFI) Fund. 
   Alaska Growth Capital BIDCO, an Anchorage-based firm, plans to use its NMTC allocation to provide non-traditional financing to support businesses located in rural, low-income areas of Alaska that have the potential to stimulate and diversify their local economies. This financing will be in the form of senior and subordinated loans, quasi-equity products, and equity investments. 
   "This $35 million award should really help to advance new business development in rural Alaska. This money should be leveraged so that financing is available for business development in a host of Alaska's rural communities. This is one investment by the federal government that likely will pay big dividends, not just for the firms that receive the financing, but for all Alaskans," said Sen. Lisa Murkowski. 
   The NMTC Program attracts private-sector capital investment into urban and rural low-income areas to help finance community development projects, stimulate economic opportunity and create jobs. The Program, established by Congress in December 2000, permits individual and corporate taxpayers to receive a credit against federal income taxes for making qualified equity investments in investment vehicles known as Community Development Entities (CDEs). 
   "The New Markets Tax Credit Program provides rural communities with unique growth opportunities. This particular allocation will be essential to help establish businesses based in rural Alaska that will have a vital economic impact," said Sen. Stevens. "This award is an excellent example of the federal government's continued commitment to support economic growth in Alaska's bush communities."
   Contact: Courtney Schikora, 202/224-1028.
 
 