SEN. STEVENS DEFENDS SECRETARY RUMSFELD ON SENATE FLOOR
  Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) today offered the following remarks in support of U.S. Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld during debate on the Fiscal Year 2007 Department of Defense Appropriations Act: 
   "Mr. President, the distinguished Senator, the Democratic Leader, the Senator from Nevada is a close friend, and I'm sad to disagree with him as violently as I do.  
   "I have known Secretary Rumsfeld - Don Rumsfeld - for many, many years. He really came to Washington with Congressman Jerry Ford, and he has been in and out of Washington, and he's done a great many things, committed a great portion of his life to the service of this country. 
   "He's highly intelligent. He's, I think, one of the first persons to serve as Secretary of Defense twice - he served previously as Secretary of Defense. He was a person who served in the White House, and he has been, I think, a very impressive Secretary of Defense. 
   "But let me say this to the Senate: in the course of time since 1981, either Senator Inouye or I have been the chair of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. During that time we have met with Secretaries of Defense. I met with them prior to that time, and I served in the Eisenhower Administration and knew the Secretaries of Defense then personally. I can think of no one who has worked harder as Secretary of Defense than Don Rumsfeld. 
   "I have been in meetings with him with members of the Joint Commander-in-Chiefs and with all of the Joint Chiefs and other members of the defense establishment and the intelligence establishment, and the rapport he has built up among those who serve this country in uniform and serve this country in the intelligence field is just overwhelming. I've been to meetings he's held with the Chiefs, just quiet dinner meetings to discuss basic subjects that were part of our jurisdiction, the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee jurisdiction, and I've seen the way those people interact with Secretary Rumsfeld. 
   "Now, I know some people say that there are dissidents in the Department of Defense. It would be surprising in a country as large as ours with a Defense Department as large as ours if there weren't some. But I do believe he has the support of those who are involved in managing our activities at home and abroad now in the defense area. I think he has a steady hand. I know he has the trust of the President, and I admire the work he's done. 
   "I find it unfortunate that this bill's going to be held up now for a period of time debating the future of Secretary Rumsfeld, and I'll say categorically this amendment is non-germane to this bill. It is subject to a point of order. I will make the point of order when the amendment is laid down, and I think everyone realizes that. But the time we take to discuss this subject is going to delay getting this bill to the President to be signed. 
   "Again, I repeat what I've been saying now for over a month: it must be to the President and signed and the money must be ready to be allocated on October 1. The funds are absolutely necessary this time. There will be no bridge for this period. These moneys must be available. I hope that members of the Senate will be brief. I'm going to be reasonably brief in terms of what I'm saying about my good friend, the Secretary of Defense, Donald Rumsfeld. 
   "I do believe he has forged close relationships. He has earned senior military leaders' confidence. Just this past two weeks ago, I was in Fairbanks with him when he dedicated the Lend-Lease Memorial - the memorial to those Army Air Corps pilots who flew planes to Fairbanks and the Russian pilots that flew the planes on into Russia, going across the Bering Strait, going across Siberia, going across the Urals, and into the area where they could be used in the defense of the Allies against the Nazi challenge to the world. And Secretary Rumsfeld was just overwhelming. 
   "The interesting thing was our partner at the dinner table was the Secretary of Defense from Russia - a gentleman that has a great deal of capability, by the way. He speaks English very well and we had a delightful conversation about the past, about the war. It was my honor to serve in World War II as an Army Air Corps pilot. I was pleased to see so many of my colleagues were able to return to that. Every one of them was delighted with Secretary Rumsfeld, was overwhelmed to be able to have their pictures taken with him. 
   "This man deserves the support of the Senate, does not deserve the opposition, I'm sad to say, in my opinion, on a purely political basis. Now, there may be some over on that side of the aisle that have lost confidence in him, but this Senator has not. I hope again, I pray that members of the Senate will be reasonably brief in their comments on this proposal."
 
 