SEN. STEVENS DISCUSSES IMPACTS OF CLIMATE CHANGE ON ALASKA
  Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) on Wednesday, Feb. 7, addressed the impacts of climate change on Alaska at a Senate Commerce Committee hearing on Climate Change Research and Scientific Integrity.  
   In his opening statement, Senator Stevens said, "Global climate change is a very serious problem. As far as the United States is concerned, the evidence of global climate change is more apparent in Alaska than anywhere else. The Arctic sea ice is receding, the trees are growing farther north, and the permafrost is thawing. The impact of climate change is real and we need to prepare. To do this we need sound science." 
   Senator Stevens expressed concern about the human impact on the Earth's climate and, in particular, the impact felt by Alaskans. "This is why I introduced S. 183, the Improved Passenger Automobile Fuel Economy Act of 2007. This bill requires a fuel economy standard of 40 miles per gallon for passenger automobiles manufactured in the model year 2017," said Senator Stevens. "The transportation sector generates more than one-third of the nation's greenhouse gas emissions, so I believe we must demand improved fuel economy from our vehicles." 
   At the hearing, Senator Stevens also expressed concern over the amount of methane being released into the atmosphere from thawing permafrost and melting methane hydrate pockets in Alaska and Alaska's Outer Continental Shelf. 
   Senator Stevens will continue to work with his colleagues in Congress and a variety of scientists, including those at the International Arctic Research Center in Fairbanks, Alaska, to encourage climate change research in the Arctic and to address the findings of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change's 4th Assessment Report on Global Climate Change, which was released late last week. 
   For a complete copy of Senator Stevens' opening statement and an archived webcast of today's hearing, please visit: http://commerce.senate.gov/.
 
 