COMMERCE COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN STEVENS RECEIVES SATELLITE LEADERSHIP IN GOVERNMENT AWARD
  The Satellite Leadership in Government Award has been presented to Senate Commerce Committee Chairman Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) by the Satellite Industry Association (SIA). This award is bestowed annually on a government employee, civil servant, or Member of Congress who exemplifies leadership and whose dedication to public service serves as an example to others in government.  
   "Our award recipient this year stood head and shoulders above all his colleagues in the Congress in recognizing the important role that satellites can play before, during, and after natural and manmade disasters. As leader of the Senate Commerce Committee, time and time and time again, he focused the Committees' and Congress' attention on the satellite industry, its services, and the unique role we can play in national security, homeland security, domestic preparedness and disaster relief and recovery," said SIA Executive Director David Cavossa. "For that, our industry and indeed the nation, owe him a debt of gratitude and I can think of nobody more deserving of this award." 
   "I am truly honored to receive this award and would like to commend the satellite industry for their involvement in public safety. Your industry has provided first responders with a ubiquitous means of communication, which was proven to be particularly helpful during the recent hurricane disasters. I look forward to working with all of you as our Committee reviews and updates our nation's communications laws, and I hope you will all remember that my door is open to everyone to hear their ideas as we move forward," said Chairman Stevens. 
   The Chairman further stated, "The remote nature of Alaska's rural communities makes satellite communications particularly important to the people of my state. Alaska's unpredictable weather and severe terrain makes many communications technologies difficult to utilize. The reliability of satellite communications has made it an essential tool for rural Alaska, particularly in emergencies. Without satellite communications the remoteness of Alaska's rural communities dramatically increases. " 
   The SIA is a U.S.-based trade association representing the leading U.S. and international satellite service providers, manufacturers, launch services companies and ground equipment suppliers throughout the world. It is the unified voice of the commercial satellite industry on policy, regulatory, and legislative issues affecting the global satellite industry. Additional information can be found at www.sia.org.
   Contact: Melanie Alvord, 202/224-8456; Courtney Boone, 202/224-1028. 
 
 