SEN. STEVENS INTRODUCES BILL TO STRENGTHEN AIR PASSENGER, CARGO SECURITY
  Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska), Vice Chairman of the Senate Commerce Committee, has joined Committee Chairman Sen. Daniel K. Inouye (D-Hawaii) in introducing the Aviation Security Improvement Act. This legislation, which has bipartisan support in the Senate, would improve aviation security by enhancing passenger and cargo screening processes.  
   The Aviation Security Improvement Act would be particularly important to Alaska because of Anchorage's position as a primary hub for international air cargo. In terms of throughput, the Ted Stevens Anchorage International Airport currently ranks as the third busiest cargo airport in the world. FedEx, the United Parcel Service, Northwest Airlines Cargo, and the United States Postal Service all operate major hubs at Anchorage International. In Fiscal Year 2005, approximately 5.6 billion pounds of freight was moved through the airport. 
   "In Alaska, we not only use planes for transportation; we rely on them to deliver basic goods and services," said Senator Stevens. "In addition, our status as a major hub for international air cargo is an economic driver for our state. As new security technologies continue to play a vital role in our overall aviation security, Congress must provide TSA with new and innovative security tools to improve the safety of our air cargo." 
   The bill would require the screening of all cargo on passenger airplanes within three years. The cargo screening program strikes a balance between ensuring all cargo on passenger aircraft is secure and ensuring the movement of commerce. The legislation also extends the Aviation Security Capital Fund, making it possible for airports to purchase advanced baggage screening systems that can be integrated into current screening systems. 
   Airline passenger prescreening remains a primary concern of air travelers and the Congress, because too many passengers are inconvenienced by false positives when matched against passenger watchlists. These errors also take valuable attention and resources away from those passengers who do pose a threat to security. 
   This bill would ensure a system is in place to handle passenger redress issues and would require the Transportation Security Administration to move rapidly to develop a strategic plan to test and implement an advanced passenger prescreening system. 
   "Alaska relies on the aviation industry more than any other state in our country. Air transportation is a lifeline for our state - more than 70 percent of our cities, towns, and villages can be reached only by plane or boat," said Senator Stevens. "We must ensure air travel remains both secure and convenient for all Alaskans.".
 
 