SEN. STEVENS CALLS FOR SUPPORT OF GREENHOUSE GAS REDUCTION AND CAPTURE TECHNOLOGIES
  At today's Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee hearing on carbon sequestration technologies, Senator Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) stressed the importance of developing technologies to reduce and store greenhouse gases. Carbon sequestration is a method of decreasing greenhouse gas emissions by capturing carbon dioxide from large point sources, such as power plants, and subsequently storing it safely instead of releasing it into the atmosphere.  
   "I believe we can achieve environmental stability while still allowing the economy to prosper. Carbon capture is one such technology that may provide part of the solution," said Senator Stevens in a written statement. "This technology, while helping to reduce the amount of carbon dioxide entering the atmosphere, can also aid in recovering reserves of petroleum previously thought to be unrecoverable. Doing so will become more and more important as global oil reserves diminish and as petroleum prices rise." 
   Ron Wolfe, Corporate Forester and Natural Resources Manager for Sealaska Native Corporation, testified at the hearing about how Alaska's land resources may be relevant to carbon capture and emission reduction. 
  In addition to providing clean air, trees in Alaska's forests have a tremendous capacity to take up and store carbon, Mr. Wolfe said. During his testimony, he emphasized that carbon regulatory programs should reward actions that increase the ability of forests to absorb carbon and enhance ecological function. Forests can be managed to maximize carbon sequestration and be part of a comprehensive approach to managing greenhouse gas emissions. 
  "Forest management practices directed to sequester carbon can provide a wide array of economic opportunities important to the public, especially to American Indians and Alaska Natives," said Ron Wolfe in his written testimony. "Sequestering activities can create new commerce and job opportunities in some of the poorest rural, predominately Native, areas of Southeast Alaska while enhancing the forest's ecological functions."
   Contact: Aaron Saunders, 202/224-1028; Steve Wackowski, 202/224-5122.
 
 