SEN. STEVENS OFFERS TRIBUTE TO CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST
  Today Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska), made the following statement on the floor of the Senate in tribute to his long - time friend, Chief Justice William Rehnquist. The statement follows.
   It was with great sadness that I learned of Chief Justice Rehnquist's passing and even more sadness when I joined the Senate to pay our last respects to him this morning. 
   I first met Bill Rehnquist in 1951. We were both young lawyers in Washington, D.C. We had each taken jobs in Washington after finishing law school and in the course of many months became good friends. My first date with my first wife Ann was on a double-date with Bill.
   We had both served in the Army Air Corps during World War II. We were comrades in the deepest sense of the word, and I respected Bill personally and professionally. He was then a law clerk to Supreme Court Justice Jackson. He took his responsibility to the Court and the American people very seriously. Bill Rehnquist was devoted to the rule of law and our democratic system.
   In many of our nation's most turbulent moments, we relied upon Chief Justice Rehnquist's commitment to the law to steer us toward calmer waters. History will remember his evenhandedness and impartiality in the face of tough decisions. 
   During the impeachment process, which he chaired in the Senate, the Chief demonstrated his fairness and his commitment to follow precisely our Constitution and the precedents of the past. It was during that time when I once again had the privilege of sharing lunches and coffees and just talking off of the floor with my great friend of the past. 
   Bill was humble and gracious. Among his clerks, he was known simply as "The Chief," and he was guided by the belief that no man is more important than the nation and the institution in which he serves. It was this belief that guided his efforts to narrow the concept of judicial activism and restore our system to its constitutional roots. 
   Now, I didn't always agree with Bill Rehnquist. As a matter of fact, as young larks we had a lot of arguments. But even then I knew he was a brilliant man. He was a brilliant mind and a good administrator of the court. Those of us who knew the Chief respected his commitment to the law and valued his advice and counsel. His friends were from all walks of life; he counted law clerks, senators, congressmen, and presidents among them. 
   Bill embodied the lines in the Rudyard Kipling poem, "If." Bill Rehnquist could walk with kings without losing the common touch. 
   Those of us who knew him will miss the Chief's wry sense of humor. Inspired by a costume from his favorite Gilbert and Sullivan operetta, he added four gold stripes to each sleeve of his black Supreme Court robe. 
   He also loved a good practical joke. One of my favorite stories is an April Fools' prank he played on Chief Justice Warren Burger. Bill put a life-size photo of Warren Burger on the steps of the Supreme Court building with a sign asking tourists to pay $1 to get a picture with the chief justice. Remember now, this was April Fools' Day. He then drove the chief justice by the steps so he could see his reaction. 
   He once said, "The chief justice brings to office no one but himself." Now, this may be true, but this chief justice leaves office with the gratitude of our entire nation. You can see it in the lines over at the Supreme Court. The country has lost a devoted public servant, and I have lost another good friend.
   My wife Catherine and I extend our deepest sympathies to Bill's family and friends. He will be missed by all, greatly by me.
   Contact: Courtney Boone, 202/224-1028.
 
 