SEN. STEVENS ADVISES FCC TO MAKE DIGITAL TELEVISION TRANSITION TOP PRIORITY
  In a U.S. Senate Commerce Committee hearing today, Senator Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) called for the upcoming digital television (DTV) transition to be a top priority of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and National Telecommunications Information Administration (NTIA). 
   During the hearing, Senator Stevens stressed the importance of targeted consumer outreach and education to FCC Chairman Kevin Martin and Acting Assistant Secretary of Commerce and head of the NTIA Meredith Atwell Baker.
   "The digital transition must be the FCC's number one priority this year. No other issue before the FCC has the same critical countdown as this transition," said Senator Stevens. "It is crucial that government officials, industry, and consumer advocacy groups increase their outreach efforts to senior citizens and rural Americans. Many Alaskans depend on over-the-air broadcasts, and we must ensure that they are prepared for this transition."
   "I think the most important thing we can do is get the word out in more diverse forms," said Chairman Martin. "I think you are going to see an increase in the frequency by broadcasters and by all the different people the Commission regulates and all the people involved in the transition with providing increased consumer information."
   Senator Stevens commended Chairman Martin for addressing concerns regarding the burden that small cable operators could face if they are required by the FCC to carry both analog and digital signals.
   "Mr. Chairman, I am pleased to hear the FCC has listened to concerns that have been raised previously regarding the undue burden that small cable operators could face if they are required to carry both an analog and digital signal. The capacity of their systems is so small that such a requirement threatens to put them out of business, resulting in the loss of local jobs and the loss of cable for many viewers in rural parts of the country. I commend and thank the FCC for responding to that issue."
   On February 17, 2009, television broadcasters are mandated to switch from analog to digital television signals. The DTV transition will provide not only clearer pictures and increased programming, but will also free up airwaves for emergency first responders and new wireless communications.
   Contact: Aaron Saunders, 202/224-1028; Steve Wackowski, 202/224-5122.
 
 