SEN. STEVENS SPEAKS ON INTELLIGENCE REFORM CONFERENCE REPORT
  As the U.S. Senate entered into debate today on the Conference Report to accompany the Intelligence Reform bill, S. 2845, Sen. Ted Stevens (R-AK) shared his thoughts with his Senate colleagues.  
   While Stevens indicated that he would vote in support of the House-Senate Conference Report, he expressed his concerns over the broad authorities vested in the new Director of National Intelligence.
   Following are Senator Stevens' remarks:
   I rise today to discuss the National Intelligence Reform bill. I commend my colleagues in both Houses for their hard work in coming to an agreement. As with any conference, each voice is heard, but none can dominate and compromise must be achieved. I also commend them for their attention to the people of this nation for a bill that addresses their concerns in the wake of September 11. Though I do not believe this bill will fully resolve all of these concerns, the American people should know that the Congress has initiated the process of reforming our intelligence community.
   I voted for the Senate passed bill with reservations - I was concerned about the needs of the war fighter, the publication of the topline number of the Intelligence Community and the broad authorities granted to the Director of National Intelligence. I was hopeful that through the conference agreement these concerns would be addressed. They have been partially met - however I still believe that some of the sections of the bill grant such authorities to the Director of National Intelligence which places him or her above those of the President's cabinet. I believe we have created an Intelligence Czar whose authorities will far exceed any other governmental official, other than the President. This should be of concern to everyone, because the Director of National Intelligence is not an elected official, and is not directly accountable to the American people. The Director of National Intelligence can only be reigned in by the President. This puts the burden on the President of overseeing the actions of the Director of National Intelligence on a daily basis.
   The Intelligence Community has always provided support to the President, the Administration and the Congress. I fear that this bill goes beyond such a role. When an individual or an organization is given such broad authorities, the lines between policy making and information gathering become blurred. I continue to have reservations as to how this new organization will integrate with the authorities of the Secretaries of State, Defense and Homeland Security. 
   These are extraordinary authorities that the Director of National Intelligence will exercise; even beyond those I have seen in wartime. As many have heard me say before, in my years in the Senate I have known twelve Directors of Central Intelligence. I have known each of them personally. In fact, my roots to the intelligence community go back to World War II when I, on occasion, flew an OSS plane into China. Since then, I have had a great deal of interest in the CIA and its operations. I know of no friendly and adversarial intelligence service in the past fifty years that has been granted such broad authorities.
   What this requires, therefore, is persistent oversight by the Congress. Each committee with oversight of intelligence matters must scrutinize the actions of the Intelligence Community now to ensure there are checks and balances in the system. Further, we must aggressively remain attuned to ensure that none of the freedoms we celebrate are hampered by this new entity. 
   I will vote for this bill - but I will request that each of the general counsels in the Intelligence Community and the Department of Defense report to the Congress as soon as possible and on a periodic basis on their interpretation and subsequent implementation of this legislation to ensure that my concerns do not come to fruition.
   Contact: Courtney Schikora Boone, 202/224-1028.
 
 