CONGRESS APPROVES TSUNAMI WARNING SYSTEM BILL
  Congress this week approved the Tsunami Warning and Education Act (H.R. 1674), which will expand and strengthen the nation's tsunami detection and warning system. The bill was patterned on S. 50, legislation authored by Senate Commerce Committee Co-Chairmen Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) and Sen. Daniel Inouye (D-Hawaii) after the devastating Indonesian tsunami in December 2004. The bill provides needed structure, authorities, and funding for the program, which will be operated and maintained by the NOAA. The measure now moves on to the president for his consideration.  
   "Alaskans, more than most Americans, know first hand the destruction tsunamis can cause," said Chairman Stevens. "The 1964 earthquake, which was the largest in North America, caused a great tidal wave which cost many Alaskans their lives. This bill will provide important warning, outreach and education programs to inform communities on what to do before and during a tsunami." 
   The expanded detection and warning system would cover not only the highly vulnerable Pacific region, but would also expand it to the Atlantic-Caribbean-Gulf of Mexico region, using deep ocean detection buoys, tide- and water-level gauges, and a coordinated seismic detection network. The bill also includes important requirements to ensure the improved system remains robust, including measures requiring certification of detection and monitoring equipment and accountability for contractor acquisition and maintenance activities. 
   The bill also authorizes a community-based tsunami hazard mitigation program headed by NOAA to improve tsunami preparedness for at-risk areas through research and education, in coordination with affected states. The bill establishes a federal-state coordinating committee for the program and pulls from the expertise of NOAA, the Federal Emergency Management Agency, the United States Geological Survey, the National Science Foundation, and the National Institute of Standards and Technology, as well as affected coastal states and territories. 
   Finally, prompted by the devastating effects of the Indonesian tsunami, the bill includes provisions to improve international tsunami warning and detection. It directs NOAA and its partners to provide technical assistance and training to the International Oceanographic Commission and other international entities tasked with improving the Global Tsunami Warning System. As part of this effort, NOAA will operate an International Tsunami Information Center to increase preparedness in the Pacific region. 
   The bill authorizes annual appropriations to NOAA of $25 million in fiscal year 2008, increasing to $29 million for fiscal year 2012.
 
 