SEN. STEVENS RECOGNIZES SERVICE OF COAST GUARD CUTTER STORIS
  Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) on Thursday, Feb. 8, urged Alaskans to commemorate the retirement and decommissioning of the Coast Guard's oldest active duty ship, the Coast Guard Cutter Storis, homeported in Kodiak, Alaska. The Storis was officially decommissioned on Monday.  
   Constructed by the Toledo Shipbuilding Company in Toledo, Ohio, the Storis was launched on April 4, 1942. Originally built as an Auxiliary Ice Breaker, the Storis entered World War II shortly after her commissioning as the command ship for a fleet of 125-foot patrol boats assigned to prevent the Germans from establishing weather stations along the coast of Greenland. 
   On September 15, 1948, the Storis was ordered to the West Coast and reassigned to Juneau, Alaska, beginning its long history in Alaska. Patrolling the waters of the Last Frontier over the course of 58 years, the Storis completed the first surveys of uncharted waters in the Northwest Passage; became the first U.S. registered vessel to circumnavigate the North American continent; delivered supplies and assistance to Alaskans following the devastating 1964 earthquake; and protected U.S. sovereignty and fisheries resources in the Bering Sea. 
   "From providing medical treatment and supplies to Native villages along Alaska's Northwest coast to rescuing mariners from the treacherous waters of the North Pacific and Gulf of Alaska, the Storis has been an integral part of Alaskan history. I personally took a trip on the Storis during this period when we were fighting to obtain passage of the Magnuson-Stevens Act," Senator Stevens said. 
   Juneau residents formed the Storis Museum and Maritime Education Center in an effort to have the cutter ultimately moved to Juneau. "Allowing the Storis to remain under the care and watch of Alaskans would be a fitting end to this Cutter's 64 years of service," said Senator Stevens. 
   Taking the place of the Storis as the Coast Guard's oldest active duty ship will be the Coast Guard Cutter Acushnet, homeported in Ketchikan, Alaska. The Acushnet celebrated its 63rd birthday on February 5, 2007.
 
 