SENS. MURKOWSKI, STEVENS ENSIGN INTRODUCE TO SPLIT NINTH CIRCUIT
  Sens. Lisa Murkowski (AK), Ted Stevens (AK) and John Ensign (NV) on Thursday, Feb. 8, introduced legislation to split the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals, the largest court in the country, because it is overburdened by an unmanageable caseload. Under the bill, Alaska, along with Nevada, Arizona, Idaho, Oregon, Montana and Washington, would be part of a new Twelfth Circuit.  
   "The Ninth Circuit has become a circuit where justice is not swift and not always served," said Senator Murkowski. "The legislation we are introducing today is intended to bring about the sensible reorganization of the Ninth Circuit. No one court can effectively exercise its power in an area that extends from the Arctic Circle to the tropics. The creation of a new Twelfth Circuit will go far in improving the efficiency and effectiveness of the current court and will establish a circuit which is more geographically manageable." 
   "The sheer size of the Ninth Circuit makes its caseload simply unmanageable," said Senator Stevens. "This inevitably results in delays processing cases, and it also prevents the Court from dealing with unique problems in Alaska, Hawaii, and other small states. This legislation will remedy the Ninth Circuit's limitations by creating two smaller, more efficient courts. Separate courts will serve the people of each region better and help maintain consistency in caselaw." 
   "Because of its enormous and growing size, the Ninth Circuit does not have sufficient time to properly handle its caseload," said Senator Ensign. "For too long people's lives have been on hold because the Ninth Circuit is strained beyond its capacity. Justice delayed is justice denied." 
   It takes the Ninth Circuit on average almost one year longer to handle a case than other circuit courts around the country. Located in San Francisco, the Court encompasses 20 percent of the population of the United States. Three of the states in its jurisdiction - Nevada, Arizona and Idaho - are among the top five fastest growing states in the nation.
 
 