SEN. STEVENS INTRODUCES LEGISLATION TO SETTLE COPPER RIVER VALLEY LAND DISPUTE
  Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) today introduced legislation designed to resolve the ongoing dispute concerning rights of way in the Copper River Valley region. This bill, the Copper Valley Native Allotment Act of 2007, would compensate the owners of Native allotments and ensure utility companies in the area are able to provide residents with the infrastructure and services they need.  
   The U.S. Congress' passage of the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act (ANILCA) in 1980 unintentionally created an issue which is now the subject of several lawsuits. In the 1950s and 1960s, the federal government and the State of Alaska granted rights of way to the Copper Valley Electric Association to run power lines across land which was later claimed by Alaska Natives. These rights of way were conveyed before Alaska Native allotment claims had been filed and processed. 
   Since outstanding land claims were approved through ANILCA, several Native allottees have come forward and claimed the Copper Valley Electric Association is trespassing on their lands. In 1987, the Interior Board of Land Appeals affirmed this position, finding Native allottees have priority over other competing uses of land. This situation is still unresolved and has resulted in years of litigation. 
   "These conflicts now jeopardize existing transportation and utility corridors," said Senator Stevens. "This issue also must be addressed because it threatens future infrastructure development in the region. In the past, we have been unable to settle these disputes through existing remedies. However, I believe the provisions in this bill are the most equitable solutions available, and I urge the Senate to pass this bill." 
   At Senator Stevens' request, the Government Accountability Office (GAO) reviewed the ongoing dispute between Native allottees and the Copper Valley Electric Association. The GAO issued its report, and the most viable solution proposed by GAO was incorporated into the bill introduced today by Senator Stevens.
 
 