SEN. STEVENS TESTIFIES BEFORE ENERGY COMMITTEE ON AVALANCHE MITIGATION BILL
  Today, Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) testified before the Senate Energy Subcommittee on National Parks regarding S. 931, the Federal Land Recreational Visitor Protection Act of 2003 which directs the Secretary of the Interior to establish a coordinated avalanche control program.  
   The legislation authorizes the Secretaries of the Interior and Agriculture Departments to make grants to carry out avalanche mitigation projects and activities. 
   The following is Senator Stevens' remarks which were submitted for the record.
   Across avalanche-afflicted states, government agencies such as the Department of Transportation, private organizations and mining companies spend large sums each year on avalanche mitigation. Depending on the severity of the season costs per state may range from $3 to $10 million annually.
   While such damage can bring hardships to many local communities, none can compare with the loss of a friend or family member. A majority of avalanche fatalities are a result of recreational activities in unmitigated avalanche areas. In 2002-2003, 58 people lost their lives in avalanches across North America - 23 of these individuals were caught in slides while snowmobiling, a common and necessary activity in my home state of Alaska. In April, Richard Staley, captain of the Fairbanks Ice Dogs hockey team was killed when his snowmachine caused an avalanche that left a debris pile 150 feet long and 13 feet deep. We can help avoid such tragedy by assisting in maximizing the accessibility of accurate forecasts, and providing increased grant opportunities for research. 
   S. 931 directs the Secretary of the Interior, in coordination with the Secretary of Agriculture, to establish an avalanche protection program which will provide early identification of the potential for avalanches and mitigate the effects of avalanches on visitors, recreational users, transportation corridors and neighboring communities. In this effort the program will maximize the resources of the National Avalanche Center of the forest service and establish an advisory committee to assist in the development and implementation of the program. This advisory committee will be comprised of 11 members from federal land management agencies, concessionaires or permittees, state departments of transportation and individuals from federal or state-owned railroads. Such involvement will ensure the vital cooperation between the federal government and local communities that is necessary in successfully mitigating the potentially devastating effects of avalanches. 
   Avalanche mitigation cannot be based solely on forecasts and research. Many communities require specific means, including hard to come by artillery, to remove avalanche hazards posing an increased risk of damage - these tools are a vital part of the avalanche mitigation effort. Just last month, the U.S. Military notified 2 resorts that 5 119-a Howitzers must be returned for use in the war in Iraq. This artillery was on loan to the Sierra-Nevada ski resorts of Alpine Meadows and Mammoth Mountain, which were using them to knock down loose snowpack threatening the two resorts. Artillery is an effective and valuable safety tool. S. 931 directs the secretatires to work with the Secretary of the Army to establish a central depository for artillery and ammunition for avalanche control. This provision opens an avenue for those federal and non-federal entities to seek valuable resources that are not currently readily accessible. 
   In maintaining essential transportation and communication corridors and minimizing the tragic accidents that occur every year, it is imperative that we assist, to the greatest extent possible, in the prevention and forecasting of avalanches. This bill brings those resources to the entities that need them the most, enabling us to significantly reduce the effects of avalanches on visitors, recreational users, transportation corridors, and our local communities.
   Contact: Courtney Schikora, 202/224-1028.
 
 