SEN. STEVENS SPONSORS OCEANS LEGISLATION
  Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) joined Sen. Dan Inouye (D-Hawaii) late yesterday in introducing three bills to enhance ocean protection and management. These measures are designed to strengthen hydrographic surveying, improve management of invasive species in ballast water, and protect coral reefs. Their introduction coincides with the last day of the 2007 Capitol Hill Ocean Week.  
  "The health and well-being of the oceans are of utmost importance to our nation, and we must ensure their protection and management remain among our highest priorities," said Senator Stevens. "The reauthorization of the Hydrographic Services Improvement Act is especially important to Alaska because our state has the largest coastal map and hydrographic survey backlog in the nation."
  Senator Stevens, Senator Inouye, and several other members of the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation introduced the following oceans bills yesterday:
  Hydrographic Services Improvement Act of 2007 - This bill would strengthen the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's (NOAA) ability to create and utilize hydrographic data. This information is especially important when it is necessary to reopen shipping lanes or ports. The measure would also enhance NOAA's ability to provide data in response to natural or man-made disasters. 
  Ballast Water Management Act of 2007 - This measure would create a national management program to address invasive species in ballast water. The bill would establish requirements for ballast water treatment, as well as interim procedures for ballast water exchange. This Act would also seek to prevent the introduction of invasive species from ship equipment and hulls.
  Coral Reef Conservation Amendments Act of 2007 - This bill would reauthorize the Coral Reef Conservation Act of 2000 and provide new authorities for the preservation, restoration, and management of our nation's coral reef ecosystems. It would prohibit damage to corals by establishing liability and civil and criminal penalties for damage caused by prohibited activities. The bill also includes specific exemptions for damage caused by research, fishing, and other activities authorized by federal or state law. Finally, this Act would also reauthorize grants awarded through NOAA's Coral Reef Conservation Program, which are used to encourage research on emerging priorities and threats to coral reefs.
   Contact: Aaron Saunders, 202/224-1028; Steve Wackowski, 202/224-5122.
 
 