SEN. STEVENS' ISSUES STATEMENTS DURING WEEK OF JUNE 4
  This special edition of "On the Record" features Sen. Ted Stevens reflecting on the life of Sen. Craig Thomas, a Wyoming Republican who died of leukemia on Monday, June 4. Sen. Ted Stevens, who had served in the Senate with Sen. Craig Thomas since 1995, delivered this floor statement on Tuesday, June 5: 
  "It was with great sadness that Catherine and I learned of Senator Craig Thomas' passing last night. The people of Wyoming have lost a tireless advocate and a skilled leader. Those of us in the Senate have lost a true friend and a genuine inspiration.  
  "Craig and I remained close throughout our time as colleagues. I visited with him on matters pertaining to resource development and ranches probably more than any other member of the Senate. These weren't visits concerning legislation, but simply to share experiences and to get advice. 
  "Although Craig came to the Senate much after I did, he possessed a wealth of knowledge, particularly about the West. I had the privilege of marrying into a family with small ranches in Arizona. Craig and I talked often about horses, the problems facing ranches and cowboys, and how they can endure in today's economy. 
  "In each of the past several years, Craig has introduced a resolution designating a National Day of the American Cowboy. More than any other member of this body, Craig recognized there is more to cowboys than roping, riding, and branding. From the Wild West to the Last Frontier, cowboys have long symbolized the spirit and determination which makes our nation great. It was my pleasure to help sponsor Craig's resolutions, and this year, on July 28, we will pay special tribute to a man who truly embodied the American cowboy.
  "Craig was always mindful of the best interests of Western states. As a Senator from Wyoming, he represented a state with a great many problems in common with those of us from Alaska. Craig was renowned for his legislation regarding national parks. His efforts to improve rural health care greatly benefitted his constituents and continue to serve as a model for our nation. 
  "Above all, I remember working with Craig on resource issues related to coal, oil, and land management. He was steadfast in his efforts to increase domestic energy production. He fought to secure funding for a coal gasification plant in his home state, and he also supported exploration and development in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. 
  "To deal with Craig Thomas was to deal with a gentleman, a person who had absolute knowledge of the topics he spoke on. You couldn't talk to him without becoming aware you were talking to a Marine. As far as I'm concerned, Marines have something special about them - an absolute steadfastness, honesty, and integrity. Craig exemplified these qualities. 
  "It is hard for me to realize he is now gone. Just before I left to go home this past recess, I stopped Craig and told him we're praying for him and to hang in there. Our great friend, Susan Butcher, also died of leukemia. She went through the same process Craig did. He told me he was going to stick with it. He thought he was going to be able to beat it. Everyone who met with Craig in the period after he was diagnosed with leukemia had to admire his courage, his absolute courage. 
  "Craig's concept of life impressed me most. He lived life to the fullest. He had a wonderful family, four wonderful children, and a wonderful wife in Susan. He was also the essence of a Westerner. I have known many Westerners in my day, but never one who was as consummate a Westerner as Craig Thomas. The people of Wyoming were blessed to have him representing their interests. Whenever he went home, Craig traveled throughout his state, from one small community to the next. We compared notes about how Wyoming residents faced problems similar to those of the people of Alaska. 
  "With Craig's passing, the Senate has lost a great leader in terms of Western values. But we have also lost a man who was a friend. He had the qualities everyone cherishes in a friend. And as the Senator from Oklahoma has said, he was very devout. You couldn't talk to Craig without realizing he had tremendous faith in our Maker. He was guided by this faith, and it kept him going during the past few months. 
  "It is also hard to understand that leukemia is such a violent disease. This year alone, more than 44,000 Americans will be diagnosed with leukemia. The type of cancer which affected Craig, acute myeloid leukemia, has a five-year survival rate of just 21 percent. 
  "If there is anything I would add to what is going to be said today, it is that we must do more. We must do more to prevent this disease. We must learn as much as possible, and apply as much research as possible, because very few people survive their tremendous battle with leukemia. Of all people, I really believed Craig might. When I left for the Memorial Day recess, I had a good feeling - Craig was going to make it. He told me he would soon start another round of chemotherapy, but because of his strong faith, he had no fear of what lay ahead. 
  "I hope the Senate takes a lesson from Craig Thomas' attitude as he faced this adversity. After being diagnosed with leukemia, Craig faced trials and tribulations we can hardly imagine, and we will remember him as an example of a man with great moral strength and great faith in God. In honor of his memory, it is my hope we will join together and find a way to apply more funds to research leukemia, whose devastating impact has now taken a good friend from our Senate family.
  "This morning, the Casper Star-Tribune published several individuals' recollections of Craig. One of his former staff members, Liz Brimmer, said, "In unassuming and generous ways, he did more for Wyoming, more for Wyoming people, than most people knew. His positive spirit permeated every interaction. Fiercely loyal and generous of spirit, Craig was funny and tenacious all in the same moment? He loved people and loved to make a difference. What better mark of a man?" I wish I could find words as eloquent and as fitting to describe this extraordinary Senator.
  "We all mourn his death, and we send our love and best wishes to his family. Susan had a husband, and his children had a father, without equal. Craig Thomas was a family man through and through, and I am deeply saddened by his passing. 
  "Madam President, thank you very much.".
   Contact: Aaron Saunders, 202/224-1028; Steve Wackowski, 202/224-5122.
 
 