SEN. STEVENS LEADS COMMERCE COMMITTEE EFFORT TO REFORM FUEL ECONOMY STANDARDS
  Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) and Sen. Dan Inouye (D-Hawaii) have secured a bipartisan compromise on proposed increases for fuel economy standards. The result is a substitute version of S. 357, the Ten-In-Ten Fuel Economy Act, which was approved at a markup held earlier today by the Senate Commerce Committee. Sen. Dan Inouye and Sen. Ted Stevens serve as Chairman and Vice Chairman of this panel.  
  This bill, which was originally written by Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.), would increase Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE) standards for passenger cars and light trucks to 35 miles per gallon by 2020. In January 2007, Senator Stevens introduced legislation that would have increased fuel economy standards to 40 miles per gallon for passenger cars by 2017. 
  "The bill that the Committee will report today is not perfect, but it is a constructive step toward addressing the nation's energy crisis and reducing our dependence on foreign oil," said Senator Stevens. "The Chairman has worked with the minority to craft an approach that works, and that is designed to avoid any unintended consequences that would adversely impact automobile manufacturers, as well as consumer choice."
  Senator Stevens also expressed concern with a provision in the Ten-In-Ten Fuel Economy Act that would eliminate the distinction between cars and light trucks in determining fuel economy standards. The bill Senator Stevens introduced earlier this year did not address light trucks because the U.S. Department of Transportation had previously issued CAFE reforms for pickup trucks and Sports Utility Vehicles in March 2006. 
  "While I am pleased to join the Chairman on this bill - the first CAFE bill reported by the Commerce Committee since the early 1990s - I still have concerns about the bill's treatment of light trucks, which are extremely important to Alaskans. The increase of fuel economy standards is long overdue, but our approach should not be so rigid that we fail to afford sufficient flexibility to the agency charged with setting standards," said Senator Stevens. 
  Senator Stevens has committed to working with both his Republican and Democratic colleagues to address the issue of light trucks when the Ten-In-Ten Fuel Economy Act is considered by the full Senate.
   Contact: Aaron Saunders, 202/224-1028; Steve Wackowski,  202/224-5122.
 
 