POLAR BEAR TREATY LEGISLATION SENT TO PRESIDENT
  After passing both the House of Representatives and the Senate, the United States-Russia Polar Bear Conservation and Management Act of 2006 has been sent to the President. The original Senate bill, which implements the provisions of a bilateral treaty between the United States and Russia on the conservation and management of the Alaska-Chukotka polar bear population ("Polar Bear Agreement"), was introduced by Senate Commerce Committee Chairman Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) and cosponsored by Sen. Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska).  
   "This bill will simultaneously support the conservation of United States and Russian polar bear populations and the subsistence lifestyle of Alaska's Native people," said Chairman Stevens. "The shared populations of polar bears that migrate between our two nations deserve the added protections and conservation measures this bill will provide." 
   This act will amend the Marine Mammal Protection Act by adding provisions to implement and enforce the Polar Bear Agreement. It prohibits the possession, import, export, transport, sale, receipt, acquisition, and purchase of any polar bear (or any part or product thereof) that is taken in violation of the Treaty, and provides for enforcement of violations. 
   It also establishes a bi-national U.S. and Russian Polar Bear Commission, which will include one representative of the United States government and one representative of the Native people of Alaska. This Commission will determine annual take limits and the adoption of other measures to restrict the taking of polar bears for subsistence purposes. The Commission will also identify polar bear habitats and "develop recommendations for habitat conservation measures." 
   The bill also includes language by the Senate Commerce Committee to authorize $1 million for the Secretary of the Interior, $150,000 for the Polar Bear Commission, and $150,000 for the Alaskan Cooperative Management Program to oversee conservation management and subsistence harvests in Alaska. These amounts are authorized annually for fiscal years 2006 through 2010.
 
 