SEN. STEVENS HONORS 2004 KLUGE PRIZE RECIPIENTS
  As Chairman of the Joint Committee on the Library of Congress, Sen. Ted Stevens (R-AK) honored the 2004 recipients of the John W. Kluge Prize for Lifetime Achievement in the Human Sciences, Dr. Jerry Pelikan and Dr. Paul Ricoeur, at the Library of Congress last night.  
   Dr. Pelikan of New Haven, Conn., is a historian whose work has studied the Christian tradition from the ancient to the present. Dr. Ricoeur, from Paris, France, is a philosopher who draws on the tradition of western philosophy to explore and explain common problems. Drs. Pelikan and Ricoeur will split the $1 million prize. 
   During Sen. Stevens' presentation of the prize, he recalled Dr. Pelikan's address at the bicentennial of the Library of Congress in 2000. In his speech, Dr. Pelikan told of the inscription on the library of Alexandria that called the library a "hospital for the soul." Dr. Pelikan found this to be, as he said, "a brilliant metaphor" because "it is here that the soul can find instruments for diagnosis. Those men and women, physicians of the soul, who have thought deeply and spoken movingly about the illnesses that plague us all have put their case studies permanently on deposit here." 
   "It was my pleasure to read that speech to the Senate so my colleagues might understand some of the reasons I feel so committed to this library," Stevens said. "This year's recipients of the Kluge Prize - Dr. Jerry Pelikan and Dr. Paul Ricoeur - have made important contributions to the 'hospital for the soul.' Their 'case studies' represent two lifetimes spent in pursuit of wisdom and knowledge. The fruits of their efforts are exceptional achievements in humanistic scholarship. It is fitting that the Library of Congress, our oldest federal cultural institution, should recognize them tonight."
   The John W. Kluge Center at the Library of Congress was made possible by donation from Kluge - the single largest donation in the library's 200-year history. The donation enabled the world's leading thinkers to access the library's collection and interact with policy makers in Washington. It also afforded the library the opportunity to acknowledge outstanding achievements in fields for which there is no Nobel Prize. 
   "Together, Librarian of Congress Jim Billington and John Kluge brought the intellectual life of our nation's capitol to new heights. I have personally benefited from their efforts. As a product of the World War II years, I rushed through my undergraduate education after that war. My work with the library provided educational opportunities not available on that fast track through college and renewed my interest in many subjects," said Stevens at the evening's ceremonies.
   Contact: Aaron Saunders, 202/224-5122.
 
 