ON RECORD: SEN. STEVENS' STATEMENTS DURING WEEK OF FEB. 5
  On the gas pipeline's importance to future development in Alaska 
   "I think we are the reservoir for the country as far as future production of gas, discovering additional supplies? Too many people are saying, 'How much can we get out of this pipeline, out of this 35 trillion cubic feet of gas? What can it bring us financially?' It's just the beginning of the gas age. It's not the end, and what we do now and how we handle it, the process, and the timeframes - these are all going to influence future investment. If it's done right, I think we will have a bountiful decade. If not, I think it will be postponed for another decade." (2/5/07)  
   On the recent gasline report released by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
   "It reflects the urgency within the federal government of having the State act as quickly as possible?. It concerns me in that it lays out a problem that exists that can't be solved here in Washington." (2/5/07) 
   On the Iraq war resolutions being considered by the Senate 
   "I find myself in the position where I agree in part with all of these resolutions. I support McCain first, but I believe that we should use Warner's as a checkpoint on the ticking off of the benchmarks in the McCain resolution. And I think Judd Gregg is right that, in any event, we ought to assure that we aren't in any way questioning the power of the commander-in-chief to protect the people in the field as long as they are there. I do think that we need a resolution. I think that we need to get together and finish it up. I think the problem is really this laying down of the rule that the majority is going to tell us each time how many amendments we're going to be allowed to have. That's really the issue here now." (2/6/07) 
   On the President's decision to include ANWR in his FY08 budget 
   "The President's support for ANWR, coupled with his other energy initiatives, shows his commitment to our nation's energy security. Whether ANWR sees the light of day depends on whether Members of Congress recognize that a robust energy policy consists of domestic production as well as conservation and development of our renewable resources." (2/6/07) 
   On impacts of climate change on Alaska 
   "Global climate change is a very serious problem. As far as the United States is concerned, the evidence of global climate change is more apparent in Alaska than anywhere else. The Arctic sea ice is receding, the trees are growing farther north, and the permafrost is thawing. The impact of climate change is real and we need to prepare. To do this we need sound science." (2/7/07).
 
 