SEN. STEVENS COMMENDS DECISION TO LIFT BRISTOL BAY MORATORIUM
  Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) today commended President Bush's decision to remove the presidential moratorium on oil and gas development in Bristol Bay.  
   "President Bush's decision to lift this moratorium is welcome news for people who live and work in the Bristol Bay region," said Senator Stevens. "The federal government, the State of Alaska, and local communities will now be able to work together to evaluate oil and gas potential in this area. The decision gives residents of Bristol Bay the opportunity to look for new energy sources within their own region to meet their needs." 
   At the request of local residents after the Exxon Valdez oil spill, Senator Stevens sought a provision in the Fiscal Year 1990 Interior Appropriations bill prohibiting the Department of Interior from expending funds to conduct offshore oil and gas preleasing, leasing, and related activities in the North Aleutian Basin (also known as Bristol Bay). President George H. W. Bush subsequently issued an executive order prohibiting leasing, which President Bill Clinton extended through 2012. 
   In 2003, dire economic conditions in the region prompted local boroughs, Native organizations, and Bristol Bay residents to express their support for the removal of the congressional moratorium. Pursuant to their request, Senator Stevens worked with his Senate colleagues to remove language from the Fiscal Year 2004 Interior Appropriations bill prohibiting funding for new leasing activity in Bristol Bay. The removal of this provision, however, did not immediately open the area for oil and gas exploration and development. The presidential moratorium remained in effect until President George W. Bush's decision to lift it. 
   "Imported farmed salmon, high energy costs, and the area's remoteness have limited economic development and contributed to high poverty in the region," said Senator Stevens. "The possibility of oil and gas development in Bristol Bay presents a series of new opportunities to the people of this region. Equally important, offshore development in Bristol Bay will occur under stringent environmental safeguards, using the most advanced technology available to help ensure our fisheries are protected. I will continue to work with residents in this region to ensure their needs are met.".
 
 