SEN. STEVENS WELCOMES OPENING OF FEMA OFFICE IN ALASKA
  Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) today welcomed the opening of the Federal Emergency Management Agency's (FEMA) new Area Office for Alaska, which is located in the Anchorage Federal Building Annex. In the past, Sen. Ted Stevens has urged FEMA to establish such an office. These efforts culminated last year when Sen. Ted Stevens strongly supported an amendment to the FY2007 Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act directing FEMA to open an office in Alaska.  
  "Alaskans face disasters on a daily basis, from storms with hurricane-force winds to devastating earthquakes and volcanic eruptions," said Senator Stevens. "Recent fires in our state have shown how badly we need this office, and FEMA's permanent presence in Alaska will immediately improve our ability to respond to disasters and coordinate federal aid for recovery efforts."
  "Regional offices help us build strong relationships and open lines of communication before a disaster strikes," said FEMA Administrator R. David Paulison. "A permanent regional presence is an essential part of our effort to build the foundation for FEMA's future activities in Alaska."
  FEMA's Alaska Area Office will also serve as a field office for pre-disaster preparedness and planning, as well as a staging and work area for Preliminary Damage Assessment teams. 
  Captain Robert Forgit, a U.S. Coast Guard Reserve officer and a local broadcast meteorologist, will be the Director of the new Alaska Area Office. Captain Forgit previously served on the Federal On-Scene Coordinator's staff for the Exxon-Valdez oil spill and, after the terrorist attacks of September 11th, he was the chief of port security in Western Alaska.
  "I am pleased FEMA has chosen such a capable Alaskan to run its new office," said Senator Stevens. "Captain Forgit has proven himself in emergency situations, and Alaskans will greatly benefit from his leadership.".
   Contact: Aaron Saunders, 202/224-1028; Steve Wackowski, 202/224-5122.  
 
 