SEN. STEVENS' COLLEGE INTERNSHIP PROGRAM UNDERWAY
  College students from Anchorage, Dutch Harbor, Elmendorf Air Force Base, Fairbanks, Sitka, and Wasilla have arrived in Washington, DC to participate in Sen. Ted Stevens' (R-Alaska) internship program. 
   For nearly four decades, Senator Stevens has provided college students from Alaska with the opportunity to spend a summer working in the heart of our nation's capital. College interns research legislative issues, monitor committee hearings, answer telephones, perform clerical and press office duties, and deliver messages to the Senate floor.  
  The students listed below are participating in this summer's college internship program:
  Brian J. Carr (Anchorage), son of Bruce and Kathy Carr, graduated from Dimond High School in 2004. He is currently a senior at the University of Oregon, and will receive a Bachelor of Arts degree in Political Science with a minor in Business Administration upon graduation in May 2008. He is a member of the National Society of Collegiate Scholars, assistant captain on the University of Oregon's hockey team, and plans to attend law school after completing his undergraduate studies. In his free time, Brian enjoys reading, running, and traveling. 
  Carl Chandler (Elmendorf AFB), son of Lt. Gen. Carrol and Eva-Marie Chandler, will be a sophomore at Washington University in St. Louis this fall. There he is an Air Force ROTC cadet and sings in an a cappella group. Carl graduated from Saint Albans National Cathedral School for Boys in Washington, DC, where he was the president of the Government Club, a member of the varsity cross country and track teams, and editor of the Saint Albans News. In his spare time, he enjoys playing ultimate frisbee. Carl plans to attend law school post-university.
  Sean L. Conner (Sitka), son of Rose Pratt-Nervis, graduated in May from Sheldon Jackson College in Sitka with a degree in Business and a minor in Education. This native of Oakland, California served as his college's student body president and previously interned in Washington, DC for Underwriters Laboratories Inc. and the National Organization on Fetal Alcohol Syndrome. Sean also conducted research at the University of Maryland's Center for Information and Research on Civic Learning and Engagement (CIRCLE). He plans to stay in Washington, DC and continue working in public policy and government affairs after his internship concludes. Sean enjoys cooking, volunteering, and reading. 
  Ryan Graves (Dutch Harbor), son of Donald and Christine Graves, will graduate from Washington State University this summer with a degree in Political Science and Criminal Justice. Ryan has now interned with Senator Stevens three times: once as a high school intern, and twice as a coordinator for the high school internship program. He is still considering his future plans, which may include remaining in Washington, DC. Ryan enjoys movies and spending time with friends. 
  Rachelle Johnson (Fairbanks), daughter of David and Kerinda Johnson, graduated from Bible Baptist High School and continued on to the University of Alaska Fairbanks, where she is now a senior. Rachelle will graduate from UAF this fall with a degree in Business Administration and Japanese Studies. She plans to attend graduate school to study international business and finance. Rachelle's hobbies include playing softball, reading, and traveling.
  Shana M. Kim (Anchorage), daughter of Yulee and Chae Sun Kim, graduated from East Anchorage High School and now attends Boston University, where she studies Political Science. During the school year, Shana also tutors elementary school students. She plans to attend law school after graduation. Shana's hobbies include biking and playing tennis.
  Sarah Munson (Wasilla), daughter of Kevin and Nancy Munson, graduated from Wasilla High School. She is currently pursuing a dual degree in Political Science and Economics at Seattle University. Sarah plans to attend law school and eventually work in public policy on Capitol Hill or in the White House. In her spare time, she likes to read, write fiction, and spend time with her family.
  Elizabeth Rexford (Fairbanks), daughter of Gerald and Donna Rexford, graduated from Monroe Catholic High School and is now a junior at Dartmouth College, where she is majoring in Environmental Studies and Economics. Outside her studies, Elizabeth plays for the Dartmouth women's rugby team and serves as the Student Assembly representative for Native Americans at Dartmouth. Her hobbies include volunteering and coaching for area schools, running, and traveling. Following graduation, Elizabeth hopes to attend law school to study international comparative law or teach.
   Contact: Aaron Saunders, 202/224-1028; Steve Wackowski, 202/224-5122.  
 
 