ON RECORD: SEN. STEVENS' STATEMENTS DURING WEEK OF MARCH 5
  On past efforts to step up funding for Walter Reed Army Medical Center 
  "I remember adding some things on (to the Defense Appropriations bill) because specific portions of Walter Reed said they were underfunded and needed help. And we also tried to get them some new equipment, and we did get them some new equipment, but that was a few years back. We've tried to ride herd on that?.We've tried our best to provide the funding for care and to upgrade the facilities to take care of the increased volume of traffic through there." (3/6/07) 
  On what he thinks caused the problems at Walter Reed  
   "Just overload. Overload of the system. They're getting a lot more people in there than they expected, and there really are some very traumatic cases. You can get an overload of patient traffic, but I think that they just needed more money to handle the patients. Also, you've got to remember that there were some conversations about closing it for awhile, which we opposed, and I'm glad it's still open." (3/6/07)
  On the Democrats' plans to add more than $10 billion for domestic programs to the Iraq War supplemental 
   "That's all wonderful to do but it comes after the support of the troops in the field. We're going to support the troops in the field. We're not going to allow them to divert that money away under some statement that some need is greater than that. There is no need greater than supporting the people in the field." (3/6/07) 
  On BRAC's decision to consolidate portions of Walter Reed
   "It's a wonderful vision when the war is over. But right now, I think our first call ought to be to put all the money we can find in treating these people properly and getting them home and getting them the post-medical treatment fees of this care that is so needed right now." (3/7/07)
  On protecting the Alaska Eskimo Whaling Commission's bowhead whaling quota
   "Japan is now using surrogates from the Pacific and the Caribbean islands to try to threaten (the quota) unless we all support the restoration of their commercial whaling activities, which we oppose, totally oppose?.They're wrong. That's a small group within their country. They should not being doing this politically. They should not be doing it with their embassy group. And I'm really very disturbed with Japan to think that they believe that those 15 to 18 whales our people consume should be offset by commercial whaling off their country. We've now restored the whale populations. They're balanced and protected, so I hope you will all help us emphasize to Japan that this is not their day to bargain commercial whaling against Eskimos' right to survive." (3/8/07) 
  On the consideration of Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) reauthorization legislation
   "It is important we concentrate our efforts on moving a bill forward, and in doing so, I will be focused on improving rural air service, cargo initiatives, and air traffic control modernization. I look forward to working with my colleagues on their priorities. Obviously, the toughest job we have is our reaction to the fee structure in the FAA's proposal. This is extremely controversial in Alaska." (3/8/07)
  On the importance of updating the nation's air traffic control systems 
   "We can no longer afford to simply maintain the status quo. While I am not convinced the entire system needs revamping, I do believe we need to provide a mechanism by which the air traffic control system can be modernized in a quick and efficient manner. The economic importance and safety improvements associated with a modern and efficient air transportation system are vast." (3/8/07)
   Contact: Aaron Saunders, 202/224-1028; Steve Wackowski, 202/224-5122. 
 
 