SEN. STEVENS OPENS JOINT COMMITTEE HEARING ON ENERGY PRICES
  Today the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation and the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee held a joint committee hearing, chaired by Sens. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) and Pete Domenici (R-N.M.), to address energy prices and corporate profits.  
   The joint committee heard testimony from the chief executive officers of major integrated oil and gas companies, including Lee Raymond, chairman and chief executive officer (CEO) of Exxon Mobil Corporation; David O'Reilly, chairman and CEO of Chevron Corporation; James Mulva, chairman and CEO of ConocoPhillips; Ross Pillari, chairman and CEO of BP America; and John Hofmeister, president and U.S. country chair of Shell Oil Company. The witnesses discussed the record prices of oil, gasoline, and natural gas; the factors affecting those prices; and their industry's third-quarter profits. 
   "Americans are now concerned whether they should be paying so much more for energy when our country's energy companies are recording record profits," stated Chairman Stevens in his opening statement. "This hearing is an opportunity for your companies - the major energy companies of our country - to address these concerns. We do sincerely want to listen to your thoughts. ... Specifically, we want you to discuss the steps your industry plans to take to alleviate price concerns. We need to gain your perspective on some of the initiatives members of Congress have proposed that aim to assist communities in meeting increased energy costs." 
   Stevens expressed particular concern about the rising cost of energy in Alaska. At today's hearing, Stevens said, "Most of rural Alaska is paying $6 a gallon for diesel fuel, which is used to generate heat and electricity. The rate of gasoline is over $5 a gallon. We have as great an interest in this subject as anyone. I thank you for your interest in increasing supply. I think that is the answer for America, to increase the supply and enter into a new phase of conservation. We can all support that." 
   The Joint Committee resumed discussions on energy prices and corporate profits in the afternoon. The witnesses included the state attorneys general for New Jersey, South Carolina, and Arizona, and the chairman of the Federal Trade Commission.
 
 