Casey Meets with FDA to Oppose Philly Lab Closure  August 2, 2007 WASHINGTON, DC  U.S. Senator Bob Casey (D-PA) today met with Andrew C. von Eschenbach, Commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to urge the Philadelphia FDA lab be removed from the planned list of closures. The meeting follows up on a letter Senator Casey sent last week on the same topic.  In light of the recent problems with food and drug recalls, I am deeply concerned that shutting down the Philadelphia lab and others will endanger public health, said Casey. I am pleased that Commissioner von Eschenbach announced a temporary halt to the closure and I hope he will make that permanent. At todays meeting, Senator Casey expressed his concerns about the closure of the lab in Philadelphia and specifically discussed the issue of losing highly specialized personnel. The commissioner assured Senator Casey that he was now involved in the consolidation process and as of yesterday has put a hold on any plans to move forward with any lab closures.  Commissioner von Eschenbach also mentioned that he is part of the White House Interagency Working Group on Import Safety. This group has been tasked with producing an interim report for the President in 60 days outlining a strategy that among other things will look at the issue of FDA reorganization and potential office/lab closures.  In December, the FDA announced a consolidation plan that would close the Philadelphia lab as part of a national consolidation that goes from 13 labs to 7. The Philadelphia lab is a state-of-the-art facility that analyzes human drug products.  Senator Casey also noted today that the commissioner is willing to seek input from Congress and other constituencies as they develop plans for reorganizing the FDA Office of Regulatory Affairs.  In January, Senator Casey joined Senators Arlen Specter (R-PA) and Ted Kennedy (D-MA) in a letter to the FDA stating his concerns for the lab closures in light of recent food safety concerns. Full text of the letter Senator Casey sent to Commissioner von Eschenbach on July 25th below: Dear Dr. von Eschenbach: Im writing to express my strong concern about the Food and Drug Administrations Office of Regulatory Affairs field consolidation plans.  In light of ongoing concerns about the safety of imported and domestic food products, I am dismayed that FDA appears to remain committed to its plans to close laboratories and field offices and to reorganize its field workforce, including its laboratory and compliance divisions. These facilities and divisions employ essential frontline personnel who are charged with the vital task of protecting and ensuring the safety of our nations food supply. I am especially concerned that any major reorganization could result in the loss of these highly specialized personnel at a time when our nation can ill-afford to lose such institutional knowledge and experience. In my home state of Pennsylvania, where the Philadelphia laboratory is slated for closure, both the National Treasury Employees Union, which represents FDA personnel at the Philadelphia laboratory, and the Philadelphia Regional Port Authority share these concerns. Your consolidation plans will have an extremely negative effect on Pennsylvanias maritime commerce and will compromise the availability of rapid and effective response in the event of a public health emergency. Robert P. Casey, Jr. United States Senator 
Press Contact
                        Kendra Barkoff (202) 228-6367
                     