Casey Applauds Overwhelming Passage of Children's Health Insurance Expansion  August 3, 2007 WASHINGTON, DC - Following passage late Thursday night of legislation to expand the childrens health insurance program, U.S. Senator Bob Casey (D-PA) issued the following statement:  The childrens health insurance legislation passed by the Senate will literally have a positive effect on the lives of millions of children for a generation. Passing legislation like this is what the American people expect us to do in Washington. It is why I entered public service and it has been one of my top priorities since I first ran for the U.S. Senate. This bill will lower the rates of uninsured children in America just like the original children's health insurance bill did some ten years ago. It strengthens the program by increasing funding for our children. And it also gives states the tools they need to do the outreach that's required to get our children enrolled and to do that in a way that spends money wisely.  The childrens health insurance program has had a tremendous impact on the lives of children and families across the United States. Over six million children are enrolled in the childrens health insurance program. Since the federal program began in 1997, the uninsured rate among African American children has been cut in half. The uninsured rate among Hispanics has been reduced by a third. And a third of children in rural areas are covered by either the childrens health insurance program or Medicaid.  But more has to be done and that is why we need this legislation to expand the program. Health care is becoming more expensive and more families are unable to provide health care for their children. Of the nine million uninsured children, 78% of those children are in working families. This bill will give 3.2 million uninsured children health insurance. Included in that number is over 100,000 children in Pennsylvania. The strong, veto-proof majority by which the childrens health insurance bill passed the Senate sends a strong signal to the White House to abandon their opposition to providing health insurance to more children. For Americas children, families and indeed for the future of our country, this expansion of the childrens health insurance program must be swiftly signed into law.  
Press Contact
                        Larry Smar (202) 228-6367
                     