Casey Awards Nearly $2 Million NSF Grant to Harrisburg University  December 3, 2007  HARRISBURG, PA  U.S. Senator Bob Casey (D-PA) today joined Dr. Mel Schiavelli, President of Harrisburg University of Science and Technology, and Harrisburg Mayor Stephen Reed to announce the awarding of a nearly $2 million grant to the National Center for Science and Civic Engagement hosted at Harrisburg University. The grant from the National Science Foundation is targeted to a specific national project which will help college science educators across America improve their teaching and learning of science, technology, engineering and math. Harrisburg Universitys National Center for Science and Civic Engagement is leading the way when it comes to inspiring and educating students studying science, technology, engineering and math, said Casey. Harrisburg University is a great example of how one regional university can impact higher education at the national level, while also helping to expand, attract and create economic opportunities for our country. Funded by the National Science Foundation since 1999, Science Education for New Civic Engagements and Responsibilities (SENCER) is a comprehensive faculty development and science education reform project. It is the signature program of the National Center for Science and Civic Engagement (NCSCE), which is based at Harrisburg University of Science and Technology.  Senator Casey believes in the need to invest in our education as a way to help our economy. He voted in favor of the America COMPETES (Creating Opportunities to Meaningfully Promote Excellence in Technology, Education, and Science) Act, a legislative response to recommendations contained in the National Academies Rising Above the Gathering Storm report and the Council on Competitiveness Innovate America report. The bill, which passed in Congress earlier this year focuses on two primary areas important to maintaining and improving U.S. innovation in the 21st Century: (1) increasing research investment and (2) strengthening educational opportunities in science, technology, engineering and mathematics from elementary through graduate school.  ### 
Press Contact
                        Kendra Barkoff (202) 228-6367
                     