Senator-Elect Casey Announces Key Staff Positions  January 3, 2007 WASHINGTON, DC--United States Senator-Elect Bob Casey today announced four key staff positions: James W. Brown as Chief of Staff, Richard D. Spiegelman as General Counsel, Larry Smar as Communications Director, and Kristen Gentile as Administrative Director. quo;These individuals possess the skills, the experience, and the commitment to public service to help me best serve the people of Pennsylvania as a United States Senator, said U.S. Senator-Elect Bob Casey. In the days and weeks ahead, I will be hiring other individuals with these same qualities.  Jim Brown served as Chief of Staff to Pennsylvania Governor Robert P. Casey from 1989 to 1994. During his career, he also served as Pennsylvania Secretary of General Services and was a partner at the law firm Dilworth Paxson, LLP. He worked on Capitol Hill for five years as Staff Director and General Counsel for the Subcommittee on Oversight of the Committee on Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs of the U.S. House of Representatives (now the Committee on Financial Services). Since 1991, Jim has been an adjunct professor at Villanova University.  Since leaving public service in 1994, Jim has been a venture capitalist. He is a founding partner of SCP Partners, located in Wayne, PA, which currently manages over $800 million in venture capital funds. He also serves on the board of directors of several companies.  Jim is also a trustee of several educational institutions, including Immaculata University, the Gesu School and the Young Scholars Charter School. He is a director of the Pennsylvania Center for Excellence in Education (the advisory board for the Pennsylvania Governors Schools) and serves as Chair of the Board of Directors of the Pennsylvania State System of Higher Education Foundation.  Jim received his B.A. from Villanova University and his J.D. from University of Virginia Law School. He is originally from Scranton and currently lives in Malvern, Pennsylvania.  Dick Spiegelman is currently Chief of Staff to State Treasurer Robert P. Casey, Jr. In that position, he oversees the daily operations of the Pennsylvania Treasury Department, which include the receipt and disbursement of all Commonwealth funds, as well as the investment of approximately $12 billion of state investments.  Previously, Dick was the Chief of Staff and Chief Counsel to then Auditor General Casey from 1997 to 2004. Earlier in his career, he served as General Counsel to Governor Casey where he supervised a staff of 400 lawyers, providing services to 25 agencies and departments of the Commonwealth. He was also a partner in the law firm Dilworth Paxson, LLP.  Dick received a B.A. from Williams College, a J.D. from the University of Pennsylvania Law School, and a Masters Degree in Public Policy from the University of Pennsylvania Fels Center of Government. He is originally from Philadelphia and currently resides in Harrisburg.  Larry Smar was the Communications and Policy Director for Bob Caseys Senate campaign. He has previously worked in the United States Senate for former Sen. Jean Carnahan (MO) as a Legislative Assistant handling budget, taxes, and agriculture among other issues and Sen. Barbara Boxer (CA) as Research Director. Larry is originally from Hazleton, Pennsylvania.  Kristen Gentile has held various positions in the office of Senator Mark Dayton, the senior Senator from Minnesota. Most recently, she worked as Senator Dayton's Deputy Chief of Staff for Administration, providing comprehensive operational support for Washington, DC and three state offices. Kristen is a native of Buffalo, New York and a graduate of American University.  Senator Elect Casey will take the oath of office as United States Senator on January 4, 2007.   
Press Contact
                        Larry Smar (202) 228-6367
                     