U.S. Senate's challenges don't faze Bob Casey  January 4, 2007  WASHINGTON -- Today, a few days shy of his late father's birthday, Bob Casey Jr. will be sworn in as Pennsylvania's junior U.S. senator. He would be smiling, I think, Mr. Casey, 46, said of the former governor, remembering his father's reaction to his rise to the office of state auditor general a decade ago, the launching pad for his political career.  That, in some ways, was a more daunting period for the senator-elect. He was a young attorney leaving a small Scranton law firm to run an 800-person government office.  Now, with a much smaller staff and 10 years of leadership experience behind him, including two years as state treasurer, Mr. Casey arrives in Washington at a time of exceptional challenges and change.  Democrats control both houses of Congress for the first time since 1994, but they hold just a one-seat majority in the Senate, making tough political compromises among moderates, including Mr. Casey, a necessity. The number of U.S. military deaths in Iraq recently hit the 3,000 mark. Public confidence in government is at a low.  In an interview yesterday, Mr. Casey stressed that his early legislative priorities will closely follow some of his central campaign themes: providing health care for millions of uninsured children, raising the minimum wage and controlling the deficit.  As a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, he plans to push for heavy congressional oversight of the war in Iraq.  He'll have that opportunity very quickly: Sen. Joseph Biden, a Delaware Democrat and incoming committee chairman, plans to hold a series of hearings on the war soon after the 110th Congress assembles. The sessions will give Mr. Casey a chance to refute the persistent campaign criticisms of Sen. Rick Santorum, who questioned his rival's readiness for the complexity of foreign policy issues.  Mr. Casey, a persistent critic of the Bush administration's handling of the war, yesterday said he was ready.  I don't care who you are, whether you came from the Pentagon or the private sector. Everyone who comes into this body has a tremendous learning curve, he said. I think we'll be learning as we go, but the most important thing that I can do [on the committee] is to get as much information as humanly possible out of the witnesses.  One main discussion topic will be a possible surge of tens of thousands of new troops in Iraq as a way of stemming the bloody sectarian violence in Baghdad.  It's going to take a mighty effort to convince me that that's the right strategy, Mr. Casey said. I'm trying very hard to keep an open mind.  He advised administration officials to do the same, especially if experts warn that increasing the number of troops could worsen the situation.  In the House, Democratic leaders hope to push an ambitious agenda for the first 100 hours, including passage of an increase in the minimum wage from $5.15 an hour to $7.25. The bill could win approval as early as next week.  But it faces hurdles in the Senate, where some Republicans hope to attach tax cuts for small businesses. Although Democrats have a majority, the minority party can still exercise significant power in the Senate.  Mr. Casey predicted that the bill eventually would pass both chambers.  He also will be a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, which will take up the reauthorization of major farming legislation this year. Mr. Casey hopes to address a range of issues on the committee, from milk pricing concerns for Pennsylvania's dairy farmers to the development of alternative energy sources.  Mr. Casey officially takes the oath of office at noon in the Senate chamber. He later will host a party for about 800 supporters in a Downtown Washington hotel.  A lengthy list of organizational tasks still awaits the new senator and his aides. He hopes to have about 40 to 50 staffers running his Washington and Pennsylvania offices. So far, he's received more than 1,000 resumes.  His chief of staff is James W. Brown, a former top aide for his father.  Mr. Casey won't learn his formal office assignment for another several weeks.  In the meantime, his staffers share a windowless space in the basement of a Senate office building with other freshman senators.  We thought windows would be a distraction, he said with a smirk. 
Press Contact
 