Father continues to inspire Casey January 4, 2007  WASHINGTON -- Ten years ago, Sen. Bob Casey's father turned around and gave him a thumbs up from the front of a bus as the family traveled to Harrisburg for the son's first day in state government. The late Gov. Robert P. Casey wasn't alive Wednesday to see his son's first day in the Senate, but his presence was felt.  I think he'd honestly be very proud, and I think also would see my work here and the opportunity I have here to help the people of Pennsylvania as an extension of some of the work he did, Casey, a Democrat, told The Associated Press in an interview from his temporary office in the basement of a Senate office building.  Casey, 46, hasn't had time to decorate. The white walls in his office are empty. His desk, too, is bare, except for a picture of his wife, Terese, and a Bible of his father's he plans to use at his swearing-in today.  Terese; their four daughters; his mother, Ellen; and his seven siblings are expected to attend. Earlier in the day, they plan to all attend a Catholic Mass.  Robert P. Casey, who died in 2000, was Pennsylvania's governor from 1987 to 1995. He took on the national Democratic party in his opposition to abortion and advocated causes on behalf of working class families, such as children's health insurance.  He continues to inspire me every day in so many ways, Casey said.  The younger Casey, an attorney who served two terms as state auditor and two years as state treasurer before his Nov. 7 election to the Senate, said he considers it a blessing to be able to follow his father into public service.  It's a blessing that comes with responsibility and high standards, and that's something I've got to accept, but I've also got to live up to every day, Casey said.  He also brought along some of his father's former staffers.  Casey's chief of staff is Jim Brown, who served as his father's chief of staff. His general counsel is Dick Spiegelman, who served as his chief of staff in the state treasurer's office and as Casey's father's general counsel.  He said he brought them to Washington because they are battle tested and have a strong ethical core.  As a senator, his role will be much different from his work in Harrisburg. In the Senate, compromise and back room deals are key.  His skills as a legislator could be tested quickly. He was named to the Senate Agriculture committee, where the nation's farm policy will be examined because the farm bill is up for reauthorization this year.  He's also on the Senate Foreign Relations committee, which is to begin hearings on the Iraq war. Casey said he will be listening and asking questions during the hearings to make up his mind about the next course of action in Iraq -- including whether to increase or decrease the presence of U.S. troops in Iraq.  I think it's going to take a lot of convincing of me to persuade me that we have to have a surge, as some people are speculating about, Casey said.  Casey's low-key demeanor provided a contrast on the campaign trail to his opponent, Sen. Rick Santorum, whose sometimes abrasive style alienated him with some voters. During his campaign, Casey reached out to those in the liberal wing of the party upset over his opposition to abortion and to religious voters who had felt alienated by the Democratic Party.  He pledged to work to increase the minimum wage, improve health care coverage and improve ethics in Washington. He reiterated many of those same themes on Wednesday.  This is what I call an ironclad guarantee, no matter what happens in legislation, this office will be governed by the very toughest ethics rules in Washington or beyond, Casey said.  Among his early acts after the election was to meet with Santorum. He said both he and Santorum want the transfer to be seamless and professional.  He described as positive a meeting he had with Arlen Specter, a Republican who is Pennsylvania's senior senator.  I think it will be a very strong and positive bipartisan relationship, he said. 
Press Contact
 