Casey takes oath today –– ‘for all the people of Pa.’; Two years ago, almost nothing pointed to Bob Casey Jr. running for the U.S. Senate except maybe one thing: his father almost tried it once. January 4, 2007  Two years ago, almost nothing pointed to Bob Casey Jr. running for the U.S. Senate except maybe one thing: his father almost tried it once. Only a year after taking office as a state senator, the late Robert P. Casey Sr. mounted an upstart campaign in January 1964 for the Democratic Senate nomination, a show of ambition rewarded with a shrug by state Democrats. Instead, they backed state Supreme Court Justice Michael A. Musmanno, who lost a bitterly contested primary election to Genevieve A. Blatt, who lost to Republican incumbent Sen. Hugh Scott in the fall.  It is the same seat the governors son assumes today at noon in a swearing-in ceremony in the Senate chamber.  While the late governor didnt live to see his son sworn in as Pennsylvanias first elected senator from the northeast, he will be there in spirit. When he takes the oath of office, Mr. Casey will place his hand on a bible that belonged to his father.  I guess there are two feelings that I have, he said in an interview last week. One is the sense of profound gratitude that the people of Pennsylvania have given me this opportunity... and also a corresponding sense of obligation to fulfill the duties of that office ... for all the people of Pennsylvania.  Within two weeks after his dominant 2004 election win for state treasurer, he was getting e-mails and letters from grass-roots organizers he didnt even know urging him to run against Rick Santorum, the third most powerful Senate Republican, Senate right-hand-man of President George W. Bush and boisterous darling of conservatives everywhere.  One friend said Mr. Casey flatly proclaimed he wasnt going to run for the Senate. Just before Thanksgiving 2004, he was upset when someone anonymously posted a photo saying he was running on a popular political Web site,  But national party leaders like Senate Democratic Leader Harry Reid of Nevada and New York Sen. Charles Schumer, the head of the Democrats Senate campaign committee, were pressing hard, calling as early as late November to urge him to run.  The two men were seeking moderate Democrats, perhaps conservative on social issues such as abortion, to counter a sense that the party was too liberal. At or near the top of the list was Mr. Casey, whose largest vote total in state history in the treasurers race impressed them.  I think, starting out, I thought I would think about it, give it some thought and consideration and probably decide against it, because its not something that I ever planned, Mr. Casey said.  In an interview last week, Mr. Caseys wife, Terese, said the most practical consideration was making a difference if elected.  He thought that as state treasurer he could have an impact on health care, she said.  There were other considerations. Mr. Casey was tired. He had lost a grueling primary election to Gov. Ed Rendell in 2002, then spent the rest of the year stumping for Mr. Rendells election. And although his 2004 treasurer race was a relative cakewalk, he had been away much of the time stumping for Sen. John Kerry for president. The Caseys also have four daughters.  We quite frankly wanted him home a little bit, Mrs. Casey said.  There were the usual considerations of a political campaign.  Could Mr. Casey raise enough money? His donor base, established by his father, was at least 20 years old. Many donors had died, and contributions to federal elections, unlike state election, had limits, meaning raising money was harder.  Was the timing right? At the time, Mr. Bush was still popular and Hurricane Katrina hadnt happened.  Mr. Reid wanted a decision by the end of 2004, but Mr. Casey blew right through that. By the day of his inauguration as treasurer, however, some preparations for a run were underway, including the purchase of a domain name for a Senate campaign Web site. It didnt hurt that in the intervening months, Mr. Santorum had embarked on a statewide push for Mr. Bushs Social Security privatization plan.  In early March, Mr. Casey decided he was in unique position to knock off Mr. Santorum. He jumped in, citing the countrys direction under Mr. Bush, including Social Security privatization.  The rest is history, and when he takes office, Mr. Casey will have an immediate opportunity to make more. His skills as a legislator could be tested quickly. He was named to the Senate Agriculture committee, where the nations farm policy will be examined, because the farm bill is up for reauthorization this year.  Hes also on the Senate Foreign Relations committee, which is to begin hearings on the Iraq war. Mr. Casey told The Associated Press he will be listening and asking questions during the hearings to make up his mind about the next course of action in Iraq  including whether to increase or decrease the presence of U.S. troops in Iraq.  I think its going to take a lot of convincing of me to persuade me that we have to have a surge, as some people are speculating about, he said. 
Press Contact
 