Memories of his father follow Sen. Bob Casey to Washington  January 5, 2007  WASHINGTON, D.C.  On a day when good feelings ruled the Capitol, Sen. Bob Casey Jr. stepped into a Senate hallway and did what all good men in his place would do  he hugged his mom. In all the hoopla of the official swearing-in on the Senate floor, Ellen Casey, Pennsylvanias one-time first lady, had not had a chance to congratulate her son, the states first elected senator who lives in Northeastern Pennsylvania.  It was very emotional, the whole thing, Ellen Casey said. Many memories, many thoughts. His father, Im sure, was looking down on all this. Very emotional because hes not here.  Through it all, the spirit of his father, the late Gov. Robert P. Casey Sr., permeated a day of official proceedings and joyous celebration.  The official day began with an 8 a.m. Mass for family and friends at St. Josephs Church near the Capitol celebrated by Monsignor Joseph Quinn of Scranton, a close friend of the Casey family.  Casey, 46, left the Mass after communion  something he almost never does  to make sure he reached a 9 a.m. pre-swearing-in caucus of Republican and Democrat senators aimed at symbolizing what both sides say is a renewed spirit of bipartisanship. It was a rare meeting of the full Senate in an informal setting.  I think I was the first one there because I was worried about being late, the freshman Democrat said.  Senate leaders had warned her husband about being late, Caseys wife, Terese, said, alluding to the Scranton natives reputation for tardiness.  During an impromptu session with reporters afterward, Casey called the meeting a great start to the 110th Congress.  On the campaign trail last year, the senator often rapped his opponent, Republican Sen. Rick Santorum, for divisiveness and repeatedly promised to act in a more bipartisan way. The caucus meeting took place in the Old Senate Chamber, where senators voted until 1859.  Theres a lot of history there, a lot of pre-Civil War debate and its a room that has had a history of compromise, he said. So I think for a variety of reasons  not just the setting  I think the sentiments expressed today were very important and I think have great potential.  Still, the new senator said he had no unrealistic expectations for bipartisanship.  Im not naive enough to think everything is going to be wonderful and everyone is going to be working together, he said. But I think what started today has the potential to be not just important initially, but to have some lasting effect. But its up to all of us to work with this.  They were comments his father, who had often called for more inclusiveness in his own party, might have appreciated.  About two hours later, at 12:08 p.m., Casey, accompanied by fellow Pennsylvania Sen. Arlen Specter, a Republican, was in the second group of four senators to step before Vice President Dick Cheney and take the oath of office.  His family was scattered throughout the senate gallery. His mother, wife and daughters were in sections that bracketed one where former President Bill Clinton and his daughter, Chelsea, watched Sen. Hillary Clinton sworn in for a second term.  As new Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid read an impassioned speech about bipartisanship, Casey and most other senators had moved onto festivities celebrating the day.  In the Ticonderoga Ballroom of the Hyatt Regency hotel two blocks away, the Caseys took the stage to passionate applause from almost 2,000 who traveled from Pennsylvania to join the celebration.  Today is a day to celebrate, a celebration of a transfer of power, he said of the shift in control of Congress from Republicans to Democrats.  A peaceful transfer of power here in America, he said in perhaps an allusion to in Iraq. It has to be about people, the people who need a voice, the people who need someone to stand up for them. This celebration is tempered by a reality that a lot of people out there have tough lives and especially the people serving us in Afghanistan, Iraq and around the world.  Casey and his family were joined on stage by Specter, who later touted his own record of bipartisanship and work with Gov. Casey.  I disagree with the skepticism. There are some of us who have strong records of bipartisanship, he said. But the people of America have a right to question whether this is going to happen.  Four years ago, as Casey campaigned for governor against Ed Rendell, many likened Rendell to a rock star. As Casey descended the stage, it was he who was mobbed by supporters and friends. For two hours, he shook hands, chatted and mugged for cameras.  All around the room were people who knew the governor, who thought Casey would follow in his fathers footsteps and get things done.  Its a glorious day, said Attorney Morey Myers, who was a top aide to Gov. Casey. What it does is ensure the continuity of the Casey tradition of complete integrity in public life and full service to the people. 
Press Contact
 