Casey goes to Washington – early  January 5, 2007  WASHINGTON -- He didn't want to be late, so Bob Casey Jr. arrived at the Capitol about 20 minutes before any of his colleagues Thursday.  He sat alone in the chamber, waiting for others to arrive to take office as the 110th Congress. The swearing-in ceremony marked the first time Pennsylvania has seated a Democrat in the Senate in four decades.  I was the first one here this morning, Casey, 47, said. I was afraid I would be late, so I left very early -- probably too early.  The senator's father, the late Gov. Bob Casey Sr., might be the reason Casey was ready to go with time to spare.  He would have been worried about all of us getting there on time, younger brother Matt Casey said with a smile. He wasn't the most punctual, and so it would have been important for him that we were.  He said yesterday was a very exciting, very emotional day for the entire family.  More than 80 members of Casey's extended family -- including his wife, Terese, and their four daughters -- joined the senator for the swearing-in and celebration afterward. Many came in a chartered bus.  Casey, the former state treasurer who defeated incumbent Penn Hills Republican Rick Santorum in November, kissed his wife and hugged his mother, Ellen Casey, after posing for a swearing-in photo with Vice President Dick Cheney.  Her husband's presence was with her son when he took the oath, Ellen Casey believes.  I think that Bob will bring good things to Washington, she said. It is time for unity -- not only in the Congress, but in the whole country -- and I think that Bob will be on the forefront of that.  Former Pittsburgh Mayor Sophie Masloff, among 1,000 people attending a post-ceremony reception at the Dirkson Senate Building, called Casey's arrival in Washington a great day for Pennsylvania and for our country.  I am so proud to be here, said Masloff, a Democrat. His father was a good friend to Pittsburgh and represented Pennsylvania with strong leadership.  As the new members settled in, Casey predicted the search for common ground that began yesterday would continue.  I hope so; it has to, he said. We need to accomplish things and work in that direction. Sure, there will be strong debates and there will be strong disagreements, but eventually we will find a way to work together.  I am going to make sure that I always work in that direction.  Former Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist watched earlier as members clustered with their families throughout the Capitol.  There is a sense of relief that I am moving on, but there is also excitement for the new Congress, Frist said. I am optimistic that this Congress can get things accomplished and work in a bipartisan manner.  Frist, a Republican from Tennessee, declined to run for re-election after two terms. He plans to leave soon for a monthlong trip to Africa, but said he isn't sure what he'll do after that.  On the other hand, Frist predicted Santorum isn't likely to fade from public view. His former colleague will be having a voice through television and a book and a grassroots organization, Frist said. I think people will be seeing more of Rick Santorum.  Democratic Sen. Joe Biden, of Delaware, a Scranton native, believes Casey will make a name for himself on Capitol Hill.  You watch Bob Casey. Six, eight years from now, he is going to be someone that our party looks towards in leadership, Biden said. He will make a difference on the Hill.  Four House Democrats from Pennsylvania also were sworn in yesterday.  Their election tipped the balance of Pennsylvania's 19-member House delegation in the Democrats' favor for the first time since 1998. There are now 11 Democrats and eight Republicans.  All four new House members are political newcomers.  We're just people who were frustrated with what was going on, and we took an uphill climb and won the fight, so I think we're viewed as a unit from Pennsylvania, said Rep. Jason Altmire, a health care executive from McCandless. 
Press Contact
 