Casey family shares an emotional day  January 5, 2007  WASHINGTON - An hour before Bob Casey Jr. took the oath of office, the significance of the moment hit his wife. It's been moving so fast that at the end of the day we're finally going to sit back and say this really happened, said Terese Casey, who suddenly began crying at the first of two packed receptions for her husband, Pennsylvania's new United States senator.  I usually have one slight emotional break, she said apologetically.  It was an emotional whirlwind of a day for the Casey family -- all 80 of them.  It's quite extraordinary and I think my husband was directing the whole thing from above, said former Pennsylvania first lady Ellen Casey, the family matriarch who came with six other sons and daughters, their six spouses and 27 of 31 grandchildren.  He would be delighted, Ellen Casey said.  Former Gov. Robert P. Casey Sr. would be busting his buttons out of excitement, said Jim Brown, the late governor's chief of staff. Brown will serve the same role for his son's Senate office.  Casey took the oath shortly after noon, holding a Bible that was given to his father at a Pennsylvania Constitutional Convention in 1967.  I just wanted to make sure I was lined up and facing the right way, said Casey, who joked with his wife about being employed again -- two days after the former Pennsylvania treasurer went off the state payroll.  Casey, who defeated Republican U.S. Sen. Rick Santorum, was repeatedly stopped by citizens, senators and former lawmakers who offered congratulatory backslaps and handshakes.  It wasn't until nearly two hours later that Mrs. Casey remembered to congratulate her husband after a re-enactment ceremony in the Old Senate Chamber, where Vice President Dick Cheney pretended to administer the oath again as they posed with Casey's family for photographs.  You're already on the payroll, Cheney joked.  Casey's ambition, like his career, mirrors his father's. First he served as auditor general and then as treasurer.  Casey wanted to be governor, and family members said they never imagined he would be elected to the Senate.  It's hard to believe that my brother, Bob, who I grew up with is a United States senator, Matt Casey said.  It was hard to believe as well for Casey's four daughters, ages 10 to 17, who had learned about Capitol Hill in school but had never visited.  It's like surreal, said Caroline, 15, a high school sophomore.  I probably won't appreciate it until I'm older, said Julia, 12.  U.S. Sen. Arlen Specter, R-Pa., attended Casey's second reception, which drew 2,000 people to a Washington ballroom.  Specter shared the stage with Casey and promised they would accomplish a lot working together. 
Press Contact
 