Casey backs shift in homeland security funding  March 6, 2007  WASHINGTON -- Pennsylvania's Sen. Bob Casey yesterday voiced strong support for a bill that would shift millions of dollars in homeland security aid from smaller states to larger ones, with his home state standing to gain.  The Senate this week is debating the adoption of recommendations from the bipartisan 9/11 Commission's report on the 2001 terrorist attacks, and a coalition of senators from big states is calling for grant money for first responders -- police, fire, emergency medical personnel -- to be based almost entirely on formulas that calculate risk levels.  Will there be losers under this formula? Of course, Mr. Casey, a Democrat, said on the Senate floor. But I am confident that the people of those states will recognize the enormity of the stakes involved here.  Federal funding for state and local counter-terrorism efforts has long been a point of contention as officials compete for scarce resources. Pittsburgh and Philadelphia both are among the nation's high-risk urban areas, Mr. Casey said, yet the Pittsburgh region saw a 49 percent cut in anti-terror funds from 2005 to 2006, dropping from $9.6 million to $4.9 million.  Pennsylvania as a whole also saw a reduction, with its money from two major homeland security grant programs falling from $37.8 million in 2005 to $19 million in 2006, according to Pennsylvania Emergency Management Agency figures.  The Senate now is considering a bill that would give $3.1 billion in grant money nationwide over the next three years, boosting Pennsylvania's share to about $27 million in 2008.  But Mr. Casey is sponsoring an amendment that would base funding distribution on the likelihood of a terrorist attack, following a recommendation of the 9/11 Commission. It would add another $1 million to Pennsylvania's share.  The amendment's lead sponsors are Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., and Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, two infrequent allies who represent the nation's most heavily populated states.  Under current funding formulas, California receives about $2.50 per person, while Wyoming, the least-populated state, receives $14.75 per person, Ms. Feinstein said. About 35 percent of homeland security money is distributed evenly among the states, while the rest is based on risk assessments. The amendment would drop the amount of money distributed evenly to 12.5 percent.  Pennsylvania has the sixth-largest population in the country. It is one of 35 states that would receive more money under the amendment. Mr. Casey cited some of the state's likely targets, including Pittsburgh's universities and stadiums and Philadelphia's historic sites.  Congress should not use this money as a pork barrel, he said, quoting the 9/11 Commission's report.  
Press Contact
 