U.S. Sen. Casey: He’s ‘nice’ –– but, he’s no ‘pushover’; Now that he’s officially a United States senator, expect Bob Casey Jr. to remain a relentlessly nice guy, but just as relentless in defending the underprivileged and whatever he thinks is right, his family and friends say.  January 7, 2007  Now that hes officially a United States senator, expect Bob Casey Jr. to remain a relentlessly nice guy, but just as relentless in defending the underprivileged and whatever he thinks is right, his family and friends say. Hes about as decent a guy as youll ever meet, his brother, attorney Christopher Casey, said. Just dont confuse nice with being a pushover, they say.  I dont know that he wants to run for higher office, but I know hell be a major force in the Senate, said Sen. Joseph Biden. The 34-year veteran Democratic senator from Delaware is a longtime friend, who lived the first 10 years of his life Scrantons Green Ridge neighborhood, where Mr. Casey grew up.  Casey has every single solitary thing you want, in my view, to be a Democratic senator, Mr. Biden said. Hes all about people, their jobs, their incomes, their ability to make a living and hes absolutely just rock solid.  In the days and hours before and after his swearing-in as a senator Thursday in the Capitol, the people who know him best talked about what Americans can expect from Sen. Bob Casey Jr., who spent eight years as Pennsylvanias auditor general and the last two as state treasurer.  In an interview beforehand, Mr. Casey spoke of a profound sense of gratitude to voters and a corresponding sense of obligation to faithfully carry out the duties of his job.  They are high-minded sentiments centered on the importance of public service that his chief of staff, James W. Brown, first heard over and over when he worked for Gov. Robert P. Casey Sr., Mr. Caseys father. They are also sentiments, when expressed publicly, that can evoke a roll of the eyes among people who have grown cynical about government, especially Washington press corps veterans.  He (Gov. Casey) always said its the highest calling and if you hear it long enough, it gets ingrained. And this sounds very hokey, but it happens to be true, Mr. Brown said.  Mr. Casey, who adored his father, inherited the public-service streak, family and friends say.  When he thought about running for the Senate, his chief consideration was whether he could make a difference if elected, he said. When he talks about serving people, he really means it, family and friends say. Really.  Bob doesnt really fit the mold of Washington, his oldest sister, Margi McGrath, said.  Not if you believe that Washington is a land of large egos all trying to one-up each other and enrich themselves and if the country benefits in the process well thats okay, but if it doesnt, well, then who cares because I got mine.  Which is what much of the country thinks of Washington.  During their campaign for the job, U.S. Sen. Rick Santorum tried to portray Mr. Casey as someone unfamiliar with federal issues, unwilling to engage on or debate them, an empty suit corrupted by the ways of Harrisburg.  Total nonsense, according to family members.  His motives are entirely pure, Christopher Casey said. I dont think you can find somebody in public life who has less of an ego than Bob does.  Christopher Casey said his brother has the warm qualities of their mother, Ellen, rather than the rougher-edged  at least publicly  persona of their father.  The thing about Bob is hes a great listener. In the 1986 campaign (the elder Mr. Caseys fourth campaign for governor), ... he would spend hours with people who were just ordinary people, not ward leaders, he said.  He has a reputation among his staff of staying in a room to chat long after they start reminding him he needs to be elsewhere.  Also part of his reputation is a quietness that some view as casualness that fails to inspire. Its been said no one notices when he enters a room.  A campaign commercial portrayed Mr. Casey as someone who goes along to get along. But in a Washington dominated by partisan bickering that produces gridlock, her brother will be a welcome antidote, a healer, Mrs. McGrath predicted.  He is exactly the temperament that is needed now in Washington. He will find common ground for the common good ... He will mediate disputes, she said. They need his soft, calm voice.  That could be right, said G. Terry Madonna, Ph.D., the Franklin and Marshall College political science professor, pollster and political analyst who has personally known the Casey family for 40 years.  Bob is as steady as a rock. If you want a flash-in-the-pan, if you want spectacular, go somewhere else, said Dr. Madonna, who agreed with Mr. Bidens assessment. I think he will be a thoughtful centrist and he will take the next couple of years and learn the process.  Mr. Caseys Senate campaign tactic of laying low, Dr. Madonna said, was just that, a method of turning the election into a referendum on Mr. Santorum. (Note: Mr. Casey and his family members sharply dispute that he laid low and point to about 10 policy papers he released during the campaign.) It shouldnt be interpreted as lacking beliefs.  Mr. Casey knows who he is and will maintain his core belief, that government can act as a force for good in peoples lives.  Hes grounded, grounded in his faith, grounded in his family and in his community, Dr. Madonna said.  Dr. Madonna, who talked to the senator Friday, the day after his inauguration, said Mr. Casey still seemed somewhat surprised that he was in Washington, but said the high-minded-sounding words arent just rhetoric.  I just dont think he says things he doesnt believe. Im not trying to make him out to be larger than life. I just think hes a pretty down-to-earth guy, Dr. Madonna said.  
Press Contact
 