Highlights of the Casey Record in 2007 January 7, 2008 WASHINGTON, DC-As the year draws to a close, U.S. Senator Bob Casey (D-PA) is marking the end of his first year representing Pennsylvania in the United States Senate.  A summary of highlights from Senator Caseys first year in office are below.Im honored to be able to go to work every day for the people of Pennsylvania, said Senator Casey.  Im proud of what I and the new Democratic Congress have been able to accomplish this year for Pennsylvania and the United States, but I know that we have more work to do to help families who are struggling, to keep Americans secure and change our policy in Iraq.###HIGHLIGHTS OF THE CASEY RECORD IN 2007Since taking office after his record-setting victory last November, Senator Bob Casey is following through on his pledge to change the direction in Washington and focus on Pennsylvania priorities.Senator Casey has already established himself as a leader on Iraq, childrens issues, responding to the subprime mortgage crisis, cleaning up Washington, protecting Pennsylvanians, supporting Pennsylvanias economy and working in a bipartisan fashion for the good of the Commonwealth.  His first amendment introduced in the Senate was passed into law as part of the ethics reform legislation.  And he is the top Senate freshman in bringing appropriations back to his homestate.He has joined with a Democratic Congress that has begun to reverse the failed policies of the Bush Administration to shift attention back to domestic issues by passing into law the first minimum wage increase in ten years, the 9/11 Commission recommendations, legislation to make college more affordable and improvements to veterans health care.On the Foreign Relations Committee, Senator Casey has focused on transitioning the mission in Iraq, responding to the threat posed by Iran and addressing the crisis in Darfur.  On the Banking Committee, he has been at the forefront of the response to the subprime crisis.  On the Agriculture Committee, Senator Casey ensured that the priorities of Pennsylvania agriculture were addressed in the Farm Bill.  On the Joint Economic Committee, Senator Casey focused attention on the burden of rising health care and energy costs on families and he chaired a hearing to increase awareness of the importance of pre-kindergarten education.  And on the Aging Committee, Senator Casey has worked on issues affecting Pennsylvanias seniors like long-term care and assistance for direct care workers.  Changing the Direction in WashingtonCleaning Up Washington  The very first amendment introduced by Senator Casey in the Senate was signed into law as part of the landmark ethics reform legislation.  Because of his amendment, participation in the K Street Project is now a federal crime.  Republicans had used this vehicle to fill high-profile lobbyist positions with Republican loyalists. Standing Up to President Bush  In addition to fighting to reverse President Bushs failed Iraq policy, Senator Casey has also fought the Bush Administration on nominations and spending priorities.  He voted against the nomination of Michael Mukasey to be Attorney General because of Mukaseys refusal to say waterboarding is torture and because he was concerned about his ability to be independent from the White House.  Senator Casey has also spoken out against the Bush veto of investments in education, health care and worker protections. Returning to Fiscal Responsibility  Senator Casey voted for a Budget Resolution and appropriations bills that restore fiscal responsibility by balancing the budget while also funding domestic priorities and reversing Bush budget cuts to important programs like the COPS program, Amtrak and Community Development Block Grants.  Focusing on Pennsylvania Securing Pennsylvanias Fair Share  Senator Casey has stood up to ensure Pennsylvania receives a good return for taxpayer dollars sent to Washington.  He joined with other senators in a push to increase the amount of homeland security funding distributed to states like Pennsylvania that have a higher risk of terrorist attack.  He has also helped secure appropriations funding for Pennsylvania projects and helped to overturn a presidential veto of several vital Pennsylvania flood control and water projects.  This was the first time Congress has overridden a Bush veto.Delivering for Pennsylvania  Senator Casey was recently recognized as the first-year Senator who received the most congressional-directed projects for his state.  Senator Casey is committed to Pennsylvania receiving its fair share of federal funding and ensuring that this funding goes to good projects that will benefit Pennsylvania and the United States.  Some of the projects he received funding for include the Pennsylvania National Guard, a pre-kindergarten education program for the Harrisburg Area School District and SEPTA in Philadelphia for its interoperable communications program to allow transit police to communicate with other first responders.Focusing on Constituent Service  Senator Casey believes that the role of a public official is to offer a voice and assistance to all Pennsylvanians, especially those who do not have lobbyists representing them.  Across his seven offices in Pennsylvania and his Washington, D.C. office, Senator Casey and his staff have helped thousands of the Pennsylvanians who contact him on issues like assistance with Social Security benefits, veterans benefits, Medicare issues, navigating delays in with passport applications and pensions.Helping Working Families and Securing Pennsylvanias Economic FutureExpanding Childrens Health Insurance  Senator Casey has been a leading advocate for an extension and expansion of the popular and successful childrens health insurance program.  The legislation, vetoed by President Bush, would have expanded health insurance to almost four million additional children, including more than 100,000 additional children in Pennsylvania.  Senator Casey was honored as a Champion for Pennsylvania Children by the Childrens Advocacy Center for his efforts.Preparing All Kids  In order to expand access to early childhood education to ensure children enter school ready to learn, Senator Casey introduced the Prepare All Kids Act.  The bill would assist states in providing at least one year of high quality pre-kindergarten programs to children.  To highlight the importance of early childhood education, Senator Casey and Senator Hillary Clinton (D-NY) hosted a pre-k forum in July at the Center for American Progress in Washington moderated by John Podesta.  Alleviating the Subprime Mortgage Crisis  Senator Casey has joined with Senator Chuck Schumer (D-NY) and fellow freshman Sherrod Brown (D-OH) to secure $180 million for counseling services to help families avoid foreclosure and stay in their homes.  The trio also introduced the first major legislation to deal with the crisis.  The Borrowers Protection Act will provide funds for foreclosure prevention and crack down on bad actors in the mortgage industry and regulate mortgage brokers.  Promoting Pennsylvania Agriculture  Agriculture is Pennsylvanias number one industry.  As a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, Senator Casey secured key victories for Pennsylvanias top sectors  dairy and specialty crops like apples and mushrooms  in the Farm Bill that has passed the Senate.  Senator Casey is also a strong advocate for nutrition programs and changes to the food stamp program to help families struggling to put food on the table.  Senator Casey also helped secure emergency assistance through the USDA and in the Farm Bill to combat the Emerald Ash Borer pest that is threatening ash trees in Pennsylvania.  Senator Casey was able to include many of his priorities and the priorities of Pennsylvania farmers in the Senate-passed Farm Bill.  As a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, Senator Casey helped craft the Farm Bill.  During the Committee and floor debate on the Farm Bill, nine of Senator Caseys amendments were adopted on issues including dairy, land conservation, nutrition programs and crop insurance.Senator Casey was honored with the Golden Triangle Award from the National Farmers Union (NFU) for his work on behalf of dairy farmers and issues important to rural America.  The award is the highest award for government service given by the NFU.Demanding Emergency Assistance for Food Banks  Many working families are just one emergency away from financial disaster.  Escalating costs of home heating, gasoline, food and health care threaten to leave these families hungry and in the cold.  In light of these circumstances, Senator Casey urged President Bush to provide emergency assistance to help local food banks and other programs meet the rising need.  In a letter, he called on the President to use his executive authority to transfer $27 million to the Emergency Food Assistance Program (TEFAP) to shore up Americas emergency food supplies throughout the winter months.Seeking Common Ground and Supporting Pregnant Women  Many women face unplanned pregnancies and for some, the news of a pregnancy begins a crisis where they feel  and are  completely alone.  That is why Senator Casey introduced the Pregnant Women Support Act to provide help and support for expectant mothers both during their pregnancy and after they give birth. The bill would help support pregnant women by helping pregnant high school and college students stay in school.  It would help promote adoption and make the adoption tax credit permanent.  The legislation also calls for increased health care, nutrition aid and support for new mothers and their infants.  Senator Casey believes we must work toward common ground and real solutions by targeting the underlying factors that often lead women to have abortions.   Senator Casey has also voted to support family planning programs in the United States and internationally.  He voted in September to overturn the so-called Mexico City Policy in order to allow U.S. funding for non-governmental organizations in other countries which provide family planning and contraceptive services.  This money could not be used to provide abortion services or counseling.Keeping Pennsylvania and the United States SecureChanging Course in Iraq  As a member of the Foreign Relations Committee, Senator Casey has been at the forefront of the effort to transition the mission in Iraq to stop our troops from policing a civil war.  In addition to voting to redeploy U.S. troops, Senator Casey has also introduced legislation calling for increased diplomacy in the region to find a political solution in Iraq.  After President Bush refused to do so, Senator Casey also supported a bipartisan effort to implement the recommendations of the Iraq Study Group.  In August, he visited Iraq and Jordan with the Assistant Senate Majority Leader Dick Durbin (D-IL).  On November 17th, he delivered the weekly national Democratic radio address responding to President Bush on Iraq.Standing Firm on Iran  In Washington and in Pennsylvania speeches like one he delivered to the World Affairs Council of Philadelphia, Senator Casey has set forth a three part strategy to deter and contain Iran, its nuclear ambitions and its hostility toward Israel.  The United States must work to further isolate Iran diplomatically, take action to apply substantial pressure on Irans energy sector and lay the groundwork for financial sanctions.  Senator Casey has cosponsored bills to tighten existing sanctions and to give state and local governments the ability to divest their pension funds from companies with business ties to Iran.Advancing a New Foreign Policy  As a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Senator Casey has begun to chart a new course in foreign policy that seeks to undue many of the mistakes made by the Bush Administration and restore respect around the world.  He has also focused his attention on the crisis in Darfur and debt relief for the worlds poorest countries.  Bolstering Homeland Security  Senator Casey helped to pass newly enacted laws to implement the 9/11 Commission recommendations and to increase homeland security funding to prepare for and respond to a terrorist attack.  Senator Casey joined Congressional Democrats in passing $2.8 billion more in homeland security funding than what President Bush proposed.  This funding will provide additional resources to secure our borders, protect our transportation systems, improve intelligence and information sharing and provide additional resources for first responders.  Senator Casey also secured funding to help the Pennsylvania National Guard communicate with first responders as well as funding for interoperable communications in Philadelphia.  And after years of feet-dragging from the White House, Senator Casey was part of a new Congress that passed legislation to implement the bipartisan and independent 9/11 Commission recommendations to make American more secure.Combating Nuclear Terrorism  Senator Casey is going on the offensive to address new and emerging threats.  He has outlined a three-part strategy on nuclear terrorism to address what he has called the single greatest peril to our nation.  First, we must elevate the penalties for individuals and businesses that facilitate smuggling of fissile material and related nuclear components.  Second, we should work with the International Atomic Energy Agency to establish a global library of nuclear fissile material to track the origin of the material.  Finally, we must be doing more in the overall effort to combat nuclear proliferation among states like Iran, North Korea and others who seek or acquire nuclear material.  Fighting Crime and Aiding Law Enforcement  After a decade of declining crime rates, we have experienced increases for the past two years.  Crime is a problem not only in our cities but in our rural areas as well.  To put more police officers on the beat, Senator Casey joined with Senator Joe Biden (D-DE) to increase funding for the highly successful COPS program.  He is also working with state and local officials on a comprehensive community-based approach to fight crime and intervention to prevent crime before it can occur.  Senator Casey also participated in two youth violence and mentoring forums in Philadelphia and Lancaster with Sen. Arlen Specter as well as political and community leaders. Protecting Consumers from Unsafe ProductsIncreasing the Safety of Imported Food  Senator Casey and Senator Chuck Grassley (R-IA) introduced the first major bipartisan food safety bill in the Senate that includes simple, commonsense measures that will go a long way to ensure the safety of our food supply and our national security.  The EAT SAFE Act will increase staffing and training to stop unsafe food at the border, increase efficiency in how the federal government monitors and responds to these unsafe imports and close a very large and dangerous loophole that allows companies to avoid reporting to the FDA instances where their imports are found to be unsafe by private testing labs.Protecting Consumers from Unsafe Imports  In response to the flood of recalls of dangerous toys and unsafe food products, Senator Casey coauthored legislation requiring importers to carry insurance to pay for recalls and cover liability claims.  Keeping Unsafe Toys Off the Shelves  Senator Casey supports legislation to increase the number of inspectors at the Consumer Product Safety Commission and to increase penalties for those responsible for unsafe products.Honoring Our Commitment to VeteransImproving Veterans Health Care  Senator Casey has helped to pass legislation that includes funding increases for veterans health care, veterans employment programs, homeless vets and programs to help those suffering from Traumatic Brain Injury.After the shameful conditions at Walter Reed Medical Center were brought to light in February, Senator Casey joined with his colleagues in the Senate to push forward legislation to start addressing the problems with health care for returning troops and he also helped to pass $1 .8 billion in additional emergency funding for veterans health care.  He also supported the Wounded Warriors legislation that takes crucial steps toward providing for a seamless transition from DOD to VA care.  Securing Higher Education Benefits for the National Guard and Reserve Veterans  Senator Casey joined Representative Chris Carney (D-PA10) to introduce the Senate version of The Higher Education Opportunity for Our National Guard and Reserve Soldiers Act.  This bill, passed by both the House and Senate, will fix a problem in the current GI Bill that makes it harder for members of the Guard and Reserve to take advantage of the education benefits in the GI Bill. The legislation gives Guard and Reservists up to 10 years to use their education benefitsthe same time frame that active duty servicemen receive.Preserving Enlistment Bonuses  In response to recent reports of wounded troops being asked to repay their enlistment bonuses, Senator Casey joined a bipartisan group to introduce legislation, passed by the Senate and House, which guarantees full payment of bonuses and incentives to veterans wounded in combat.  The bipartisan legislation also requires the Pentagon to conduct an audit to identify former service members who may have been affected by this practice dating back to 2001 and to restore their rightful payments.Protecting Our Environment Slowing, Stopping and Reducing Global Warming  Senator Casey strongly believes that we have a moral duty to preserve the environment not just so we can have clean air to breathe and clean water to drink, but because this world is in our care for our children and our childrens children.  That is why he is supporting legislation that would reduce global warming pollution and other harmful emissions.  Senator Casey is also focused on actively creating opportunities for job growth through a federal climate bill.  He included language in the Lieberman-Warner climate change bill that passed out of Committee to help protect American workers impacted by a federal climate program.  Reducing Our Dependence on Foreign Oil and Investing in New Technologies  Senator Casey supported an energy bill signed into law that takes important steps forward to increase our energy, economic and environmental security.  It also begins to reverse outdated policies that did not invest in new alternative technologies, but gave tax breaks to oil companies even as they reaped record profits.  And the CAFE standard increase contained in the bill is long overdue.  Senator Casey will continue to fight for legislation he introduced to repeal oil company tax breaks and reinvest that money in alternative and renewable fuels.   
Press Contact
                        Larry Smar 202-228-6367
                     