Casey And Families USA Announce Pennsylvania Could Recieve $1.82 Billion To Cover Uninsured Children  June 7, 2007 WASHINGTON, DC  U.S. Senator Bob Casey (D-PA) today joined with Families USA, the national organization for health care consumers, in releasing the new report with a Pennsylvania-specific analysis on the importance of reauthorizing the State Childrens Health Insurance Program (SCHIP). Senator Casey is fighting hard for $50 billion in additional funding, which could result in Pennsylvania receiving $1.82 billion over the next five years and would increase the states ability to provide health coverage to the uninsured children in Pennsylvania.  This report makes clear the urgency to provide the full $50 billion in additional funding for SCHIP. This new funding will triple the money Pennsylvania receives and greatly increase the number of children receiving health care. One of my top priorities this year is to do everything I can to secure the $50 billion for the SCHIP reauthorization this year, said Senator Casey. SCHIP, which passed Congress in 1997, must be reauthorized by Congress every ten years, and is set to expire September 30, 2007. The Senate is expected to vote upon reauthorization of SCHIP this summer. According to the Families USA report, the additional money that could be provided to Pennsylvania would not only help children, but it would also improve Pennsylvanias economy. Over the next five years, the $1.82 billion in new federal funding could create: It is unacceptable that 9 million children in this country are without health insurance, said Casey. And the data clearly shows that the majority of uninsured children  78 percent  come from working families, sometimes working 2 and 3 jobs, and still cant afford health insurance. We must do better for these children. Earlier this year, Senator Casey joined Senators Rockefeller, Kennedy, and Baucus to author an amendment as part of the fiscal year 2008 budget debate that states, in part, that reauthorizing SCHIP is the Senates top health care priority and that expanding health care coverage to uninsured children is urgent.  
Press Contact
                        Kendra Barkoff (202) 228-6367
                     