Casey Announces Congressional Approval of $425,000 for Harrisburg's Preschool Program November 8, 2007 WASHINGTON, DC  U.S. Senator Bob Casey (D-PA) today announced that Congress has approved $425,000 in funding for the Harrisburg School Districts nationally recognized Pre-Kindergarten program. This project was one of Senator Caseys top priorities in the FY08 Labor, Health and Human Services and Education Appropriations Bill. The bill now goes to the President, who has threatened to veto this legislation, before funding is final.  It is my hope that President Bush reconsiders his threat to veto to this important legislation, said Casey. This program is a critical investment in our childrens academic and social success. Studies have found that children who attend Harrisburgs Pre-K program have higher math and vocabulary skills than their peers and do better later on in school and in life. The Harrisburg School Districts Preschool Program has been cited as the premier model of high quality Pre-K for at-risk children in Pennsylvania. It is a collaborative effort with Capital Area Head Start and community child care providers that offer wrap-around care before and after the school day. The program, which serves about 600 three- and four-year olds annually, exposes children to developmental elements including literacy skills, language and vocabulary development, math, science, and music. According to the Harrisburg School District: Casey said he will continue to fight for an even greater investment in early education programs and for his legislation to fund quality Pre-K programs nationally.  In May, Casey introduced the Prepare All Kids Act to assist states in providing voluntary, high quality pre-Kindergarten to children. His legislation would ensure high quality learning by requiring collaborative preschool programs to utilize a research-based curriculum that supports childrens cognitive, social, emotional and physical development; by limiting classroom size; by improving teacher training; and by encouraging greater parental involvement.  ### 
Press Contact
                        Kendra Barkoff (202) 228-6367
                     