Casey Joins Senate in Overriding Bush Veto of Water Projects Bill  November 8, 2007  WASHINGTON, DC-Following the Senate veto override on the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) that includes funding for water projects and flood control for Pennsylvania, U.S. Senator Bob Casey (D-PA) released the following statement: For the first time in seven years, the Water Resources Development Act has become law. This legislation will lead to improvements in Pennsylvania waterways and flood control and create Pennsylvania jobs.  In another sign that President Bush is ignoring domestic priorities, this bill became law after large bipartisan majorities in the House and Senate overrode his veto.  The WRDA bill authorizes critical projects in Pennsylvania and around the country to improve flood control and aid transportation on our waterways.  President Bushs veto of the WRDA bill comes after his veto of a bill to expand childrens health insurance, a threatened veto of a Farm Bill that makes improvements for Pennsylvania farmers and threatened vetoes of must-pass appropriations bills. The 2007 WRDA contains authorization for the following Pennsylvania projects:  $50 million for construction of Solomon Creek Flood Protection in Luzerne County. The flood protection construction will take place along Solomon Creek in Wilkes-Barre and will be incorporated into the existing Wyoming Valley Levee Raising project. The City of Wilkes-Barre has experienced significant flooding and extensive damages from Solomon Creek many times over the past decades, including 1972, 1975, 1985, 1996, 2004 and, most recently, in June 2006.  $44.5 million for construction of the Bloomsburg Flood Control Project in Columbia County. Residents of Bloomsburg have continually been subject to the risks of flooding from both the Susquehanna River and Fishing Creek. This project involves the construction of earthen levees, concrete floodwalls and closure structures that will stretch for three miles and protect 550 homes and 32 businesses, including the Bloomsburg Fairgrounds.  $3.1 million for Ohio River Navigation Technology Pilot Program in Allegheny County for a pilot program at the Port of Pittsburgh that will implement technologies to facilitate communications between tow boats and lock facilities. The program seeks to increase lock efficiency and safety in periods of low visibility on the Ohio River. The Port of Pittsburgh loses 11 days per year due to barges not being able to navigate through locks in periods of heavy fog.  $3 million for Beaver Creek Reservoir in Clarion County for projects related to water supply at the Beaver Creek Reservoir in Beaver and Salem Townships.  Ingham Spring Dam in Bucks County: authorizes the Corps to enhance dam safety at Ingham Spring Dam.  Stillwater Lake Dam in Monroe County: authorizes the Corps to enhance dam safety at Stillwater Lake Dam  Delaware, Susquehanna and Potomac River Basin Commissions: authorizes federal funds for the three mid-Atlantic river basin commissions. Funding is needed to provide the federal governments contribution to the river basin commissions, regional bodies which seek to manage the water resources under watershed management and planning principles. Funding amounts to be determined according to the respective interstate compacts that established each commission.  
Press Contact
                        Larry Smar (202) 228-6367
                     