Casey announces $656,600 for SEPTA January 9, 2008  WASHINGTON, DC  U.S. Senator Bob Casey (D-PA) today announced that the Southeastern Pennsylvania Transportation Authority (SEPTA) will receive $656,600 in federal funds to improve its emergency communications system.   The money, signed into law as part of the transportation spending bill, will enable SEPTA to enhance the safety and security of the nations fifth largest public transportation system. Senator Casey today was joined by Representatives Bob Brady (D-PA) and Patrick Murphy (D-PA), Mayor Michael Nutter, and SEPTA officials. We have seen the consequences when first responders cant communicate with one another during emergencies, said Casey.   The money I am announcing today will help improve communication in emergency response and recovery actions.  Increasing security at home is one of my top priorities.  I will continue to work with the mayor and the congressional delegation to help make our public transportation safer. Currently, SEPTA, municipal police and other emergency responders in the five southeastern Pennsylvania counties operate on various communications systems.  Funding will be used to develop an interoperable communications network for SEPTA Police to communicate with police departments and emergency response teams throughout the five counties. The safety enhancement will take part in two phases.  Phase One will focus on interoperable communications in the City of Philadelphia.  An interoperable communications system will enable SEPTA to communicate with City Police, Fire and Emergency Services Personnel.  This system will allow the Authority to participate, either in a lead, or supporting role, in all emergency response and recovery actions from accidental, natural and terrorist incidents, which may occur in the 20 miles of City commuter tunnel system, underground concourses and above-ground transportation facilities.  This system will also provide day-to-day communications capability between SEPTA and the City Police operations. Phase Two will provide interoperability for SEPTA police and municipal police and emergency team communications activities in Bucks, Chester, Delaware, Montgomery and Philadelphia counties.  This area encompasses approximately 2,200 square miles.  SEPTA serves over one-half million customers daily and provides over 303 million passenger trips annually. Congress provided this funding at Senator Caseys request.  The legislation was signed into law on December 26.    ### 
Press Contact
                        Kendra Barkoff - (202) 228-6367
                     