Casey Signs On to Medicare Chronic Care Bill May 9, 2007 WASHINGTON, DC - Today U.S. Senator Bob Casey (D-PA) signed on to legislation to improve health care for seniors by helping coordinate care for chronic conditions like diabetes, cancer, arthritis, and heart disease. Senator Casey is an original cosponsor of the Geriatric Assessment and Chronic Care Act (S.1340).  Managing and coordinating care for multiple chronic conditions provides enormous benefits to the patient with better care, increased prevention and greater enjoyment of life, said Senator Casey. Pennsylvania has the second highest number of residents over the age of 65. It doesn't make sense that our primary health care program for seniors in this country does not pay for coordinating one of the most common challenges that older people face - multiple chronic conditions. This legislation will help seniors coordinate their care and to sift through the numerous and often conflicting medical advice from their medical specialists.  Senator Casey is also a member of the Special Committee on Aging. The Committee is holding a hearing today on the need for chronic care coordination.  Of the more than 2 million Medicare beneficiaries in Pennsylvania, an estimated 1.7 million people have chronic conditions.  The legislation would allow qualified patients to choose a chronic care manager to help patients develop a coordinated treatment plan. The bill would also make it easier for patients or their relatives to navigate the health care system, particularly those with dementia or Alzheimer's disease who face unique challenges. By better coordinating care, patients can receive assistance in navigating multiple specialists, help interpreting diverse medical opinions, and increased quality of health and life through preventive care.  The Geriatric Assessment and Chronic Care Act has been endorsed by thirty organizations including the American Geriatrics Society and the American College of Physicians.  
Press Contact
                        Larry Smar (202) 228-6367
                     