Senators Specter and Casey Announce Final Congressional Approval of Northwestern Pennsylvania Health, Education and Labor Projects  November 9, 2007 Washington, D.C. - U.S. Senators Arlen Specter, Ranking Member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, and Bob Casey, the Junior Senator from Pennsylvania, announced today the U.S. Congress has approved funding for several northwestern Pennsylvania health care, education and labor projects. The projects are contained in the Fiscal Year 2008 Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations Conference Report.I am pleased my colleagues have approved this important funding for northwestern Pennsylvania, Senator Specter said. Health and education are our nations greatest capital assets, and these projects are vital to ensuring quality health care and education for the areas residents.This money is great news for northwestern Pennsylvania and I am thrilled that Congress approved this funding, said Senator Casey. I will continue working with Senator Specter to ensure residents of the area have access to quality health care and education.The Conference Report must be approved by the full Congress and the President of the United States before funding is final.Northwestern Pennsylvania projects in the Conference Report include (if a House Member also requested a project, their name is indicated at the end): $90,000 for Meadville Medical Center in Crawford County for equipment and construction of a cancer care center, including a CT scanner, chemotherapy bays, treatment rooms, physician offices, examination rooms, and waiting area.  $90,000 for University of Pittsburgh Medical Center in Allegheny County for tests to advance potential submission of radiowave technology for FDA approval to initiate a clinical trial. This funding will benefit Erie-based inventor John Kanzius non-invasive cancer treatment research.  $90,000 for Edinboro University of Pennsylvania in Erie County to support a computer forensics training program at its Western Pennsylvania High Tech Crime Training Center.  $90,000 for Hamot Medical Center in Erie County for construction of the Women's Pavilion, including a neonatal center, birthing center, operating suites and family care suites.  $90,000 for Kane Community Hospital in McKean County to upgrade the electronic health records system and to develop a cardiac rehabilitation program, involving exercise, education and counseling for patients.  $90,000 for Sharon Regional Health System in Mercer County to purchase a Digital Mammography System for the Hermitage Outpatient Diagnostic Center.  $90,000 for Thiel College in Mercer County to improve the technological infrastructure upgrades at the Langenheim Library.  $90,000 for Potter County Human Services in Potter County for in-school, after school and community youth health programs that promote physical activity, healthy eating, team building, sportsmanship and leadership development. # # # Washington, D.C. - U.S. Senators Arlen Specter, Ranking Member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, and Bob Casey, the Junior Senator from Pennsylvania, announced today the U.S. Congress has approved funding for several northwestern Pennsylvania health care, education and labor projects. The projects are contained in the Fiscal Year 2008 Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations Conference Report. I am pleased my colleagues have approved this important funding for northwestern Pennsylvania, Senator Specter said. Health and education are our nations greatest capital assets, and these projects are vital to ensuring quality health care and education for the areas residents. This money is great news for northwestern Pennsylvania and I am thrilled that Congress approved this funding, said Senator Casey. I will continue working with Senator Specter to ensure residents of the area have access to quality health care and education. The Conference Report must be approved by the full Congress and the President of the United States before funding is final. Northwestern Pennsylvania projects in the Conference Report include (if a House Member also requested a project, their name is indicated at the end): # # #  
Press Contact
                        Kendra Barkoff (202) 228-6367
                     