Casey Applauds Proposal To Increase Funding To Fight Violent Crime  July 11, 2007  WASHINGTON, DC- U.S. Senator Bob Casey (D-PA) today praised the Senate Appropriations Committee for significantly increasing funding for programs to help local communities fight violent crime in the Fiscal Year 2008 Budget. Senator Casey wrote to the Committee in support of additional funding for these programs. The Committee has recommended state and local law enforcement receive $2,655,100,000 to accomplish this, an increase of more than $126 million over the level provided in 2007. In June, Senator Casey wrote a letter to Senator Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), Chair of the Senate Appropriations Committee, and Senator Richard Shelby (R-AL), Ranking member of the Committee, urging them to increase funding for the state and local law enforcement. Casey wrote, State and local law enforcement and juvenile justice programs have seen unprecedented cuts over the past several years and research experts are drawing a correlation between these reductions and recent up ticks in the violent crime rate. These cuts to law enforcement and juvenile justice are a one-two punch to public safety and the well-being of our citizens. Senator Caseys letter specifically requested increased funding for three programs: the COPS program, the Byrne/JAG program and Juvenile Justice Programs. The Committee requested $550 million for the COPS program, which supplies funding to increasing and localizing police presence in a community. In addition, the Byrne/JAG program, which gives states and local law enforcement flexibility in addressing local law enforcement needs, would get $1.4 billion and Juvenile Justice Programs would receive $340 million under the proposed budget from the Senate Appropriation Committee. The most recent FBI data show an increase in homicides and other violent crimes in 2005 and 2006, the first increase in more than 10 years. In Pennsylvania, Philadelphia had the highest homicide rate among the nations 10 largest cities in 2006, with potential for even higher rates in 2007. Other communities throughout the Commonwealth and in the rest of the county are reporting similar increases.  Despite these increases, President Bushs budget recommends cutting federal assistance to state and local law enforcement agencies by more than $1.4 billion from last years funding level. The Senate Appropriations Committees proposal not only rejects those cuts, but would provide more than $126 million over the level provided in 2007. ### 
Press Contact
                        Larry Smar (202) 228-6367
                     