Specter and Casey Announce Committee Approval of Pennsylvania Housing and Economic Development Projects  July 13, 2007 Washington, D.C.- U.S. Senators Arlen Specter, a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, and Bob Casey, the junior senator from Pennsylvania, announced today that the U.S. Senate Appropriations Committee has approved federal funding for several Pennsylvania housing and economic development projects as contained in the Fiscal Year 2008 Transportation, Treasury, the Judiciary, Housing and Urban Development and Related Agencies (TTHUD) Appropriations bill.I am pleased my colleagues on the Appropriations Committee have agreed to provide federal funding to these projects which will revitalize and improve cities and towns across the Commonwealth, said Senator Specter. Rehabilitation and construction of these sites has the potential to be a great impetus for future cultural and economic growth.This money for housing projects is great news for Pennsylvania and I am grateful that members of the committee approved this funding, said Senator Casey. Affordable housing and community redevelopment is vitally important to the future of our communities across the Commonwealth.The bill will now await action on the Senate floor and must be approved by the House of Representatives and the President of the United States before funding is final.Funding has been approved for the following Pennsylvania projects: $300,000 for the Altoona-Blair County Development Corporation in Blair County for its Entrepreneurial Institute which provides resources and infrastructure needed to commercialize new technologies, build new business opportunities, and create new jobs.  $300,000 for the City of Philadelphias Green City Initiative in Philadelphia County to clean up approximately 450,000 square feet of vacant land.  $200,000 for the City of Pittsburgh in Allegheny County for a structured parking garage to promote high density urban development.  $200,000 for Our City Reading in Berks County to rehabilitate abandoned houses with the goal of rehabilitating 100 homes every year. Our City Reading provides quality homeownership opportunities to low-income families.  $200,000 to Erie County for the construction of the Erie Technology Incubator at Gannon University. The facility will house and grow new businesses in the region.  $200,000 to Mt. Airy USA in Philadelphia County for blight removal, development, and construction, as part of an urban renewal initiative in northwest Philadelphia.  $200,000 to the City of Scranton in Lackawanna County for a housing and community space initiative, as part of its downtown revitalization effort. Funding will be used to rehabilitate the former Harriet Beecher Stowe School into apartments for low-income individuals.  $200,000 to the City of Bethlehem in Northampton County to support the redevelopment, renovation and construction of a South Bethlehem Workforce Training and Development Center at Northampton Community College.  $200,000 to Providence Connections, Inc. in Allegheny County for the planning, renovation and redevelopment of the Providence Family Support Center which provides low-cost childcare.  $200,000 to the Lutheran Settlement House in Philadelphia County for the planning, design, redevelopment and construction of a facility, which will include affordable housing.  # # # Washington, D.C.- U.S. Senators Arlen Specter, a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, and Bob Casey, the junior senator from Pennsylvania, announced today that the U.S. Senate Appropriations Committee has approved federal funding for several Pennsylvania housing and economic development projects as contained in the Fiscal Year 2008 Transportation, Treasury, the Judiciary, Housing and Urban Development and Related Agencies (TTHUD) Appropriations bill. I am pleased my colleagues on the Appropriations Committee have agreed to provide federal funding to these projects which will revitalize and improve cities and towns across the Commonwealth, said Senator Specter. Rehabilitation and construction of these sites has the potential to be a great impetus for future cultural and economic growth. This money for housing projects is great news for Pennsylvania and I am grateful that members of the committee approved this funding, said Senator Casey. Affordable housing and community redevelopment is vitally important to the future of our communities across the Commonwealth. The bill will now await action on the Senate floor and must be approved by the House of Representatives and the President of the United States before funding is final. Funding has been approved for the following Pennsylvania projects: # # #  
Press Contact
                        Kendra Barkoff (202) 228-6367
                     