Fund more food aid, Too many Pennsylvanians get too few nutritious meals  June 14, 2007  Neither of us is a farmer. But as one of the newest members of the U.S. Senate Agriculture Committee and the CEO of one of our state's largest charitable food assistance organizations, we recognize that the federal government will do few things this year as important to all Pennsylvanians as reauthorize the farm bill. We share a concern for the far too many Pennsylvanians of all ages and races in our cities, suburban and rural areas who are challenged by hunger. More than 1 million of our neighbors, nearly 9 percent of the population, are what researchers call food insecure -- unable to obtain or uncertain of getting nutritionally adequate food. We know that hunger and food insecurity harm the health of infants and older citizens, make it difficult for school children to learn and challenge working families who struggle to make ends meet. The farm bill is an opportunity to change this. It is a chance to take great strides down the path of food security for all Americans. We urge every Pennsylvanian to support increased investments in the nutrition programs included in this bill. There are three priorities: Strengthen the food stamp program. The food stamp program has long demonstrated its effectiveness in curtailing severe hunger. Now it can fulfill its potential with increases in its $10-per-month minimum benefit level (unchanged for 30 years) and in its unrealistic asset limits (unchanged for 20 years) which act as barriers to participation. Last year, this program brought nearly $1.2 billion in benefits to people and local economies throughout Pennsylvania. Imagine the economic boost if the 43 percent of eligible Pennsylvanians currently not participating in the program were to do so. Increase funding for The Emergency Food Assistance Program. This program provides up to 25 percent of the food distributed by food banks across the country and last year provided $21.5 million in Pennsylvania. Increasing the funding to $250 million from $140 million (where it's been for five years even as food prices have risen) would allow the nation's private charitable network to get more nutritious food to more people more often. Expand the Commodity Supplemental Food Program. This program provides commodities and funds to local agencies that offer monthly food packages aimed at improving the diets and health of older citizens who live on low incomes. As a state with a large senior population, this program is particularly important to Pennsylvania. The cost to the government of each food package is a bargain at about $15; its retail value would be $50. Expanding such a cost-effective program that could reach more seniors in need is simple common sense. We call on all Pennsylvanians to join us in the effort to ensure that the farm bill makes life better for vulnerable Pennsylvanians. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Bob Casey represents Pennsylvania in the U.S. Senate (www.Casey.senate.gov). Joyce Rothermel is CEO of the Greater Pittsburgh Community Food Bank (jrothermel@pittsburgh foodbank.org). 
Press Contact
 