Casey's first 100 days at bat -- deliberate, careful, busy, Senator has perfect attendance score, votes have held 'no surprises' April 16, 2007  It's the 99th day of Sen. Bob Casey Jr.'s senatorial career and he rushes through the long hallways of his office building toward the Capitol. The deadline for a vote is minutes away and the freshman Democrat from Pennsylvania doesn't want to break his perfect voting record.  As time winds down and he hops on the trolley that connects his office building with the Capitol, he recalls a moment weeks earlier when he sat in a hearing and realized he was about to miss a vote. Panic struck. He narrowly made it.  Casey, in his first three months in office, is that type of freshman: One with a perfect attendance record. One who knows the history of the chamber and the protocol to follow. And perhaps most significant to some, one who has so far brought few surprises to his role as a senator.  From his demands for accountability in Iraq to his opposition to federal funding for embryonic stem cell research, Casey has walked largely in lockstep with the promises he made during his run for office last year.  With his party assuming control of the Senate along with his November victory over Republican Rick Santorum, Casey has been able to trumpet the passage of several measures he and other Democrats around the country campaigned on as they talked up the ''New Direction'' theme last fall: boosting the minimum wage and strengthening ethics rules in the Senate.  Casey has had his hands full early. Just as Republicans did when they rocketed to power in 1995, Democrats have wanted to show a workmanlike attitude toward their leadership on the Hill, and the chamber has met 53 days so far this year, the most in the first 100 days of a session since 1995. It's not uncommon for Casey, who serves on five committees, to rush from one hearing to the next.  By far the busiest has been Casey's Senate Foreign Relations Committee. He said he has questioned more than 25 witnesses during a dozen hearings, mostly having to do with the Iraq war. Last month, he voted for an emergency spending bill that aims to pull combat troops out of Iraq by March 2008. The measure, which produced a mostly party-line vote, goes further than Casey did on the campaign trail, where he said a deadline wasn't necessary.  ''I think people want that,'' he said in part about a redeployment. ''They don't just want some foggy idea of changing direction. They want something that is rather specific.''  Domestically, he considers children's health care his priority. The federal children's health insurance program is up for reauthorization this year and Casey has been one of the most vocal proponents for expanding it to more families. The Bush administration, wanting to focus on families earning less than twice the poverty level, proposes spending $30 billion over five years. Casey supports spending $50 billion.  ''It is a program now and should be a program in the future for children of the working poor,'' Casey said, ''and, really, children of the lower-middle income.''  He said he also wants to establish a reserve fund for extending preschool opportunities. An amendment he introduced made it into the budget that passed the Senate, but is still far from becoming law.  Observers say Casey has approached his early senatorial career in much the same way that he handled his job in Harrisburg, where he served as auditor and then state treasurer: deliberately and carefully.  ''I wouldn't necessarily call him go-along-to-get-along, but by the same token, from watching him from 125 miles away, he is not out there breaking china either,'' said Vincent Carocci, former press secretary to Gov. Robert Casey Sr. and a close follower of Casey Jr. ''The real test will be when you get into party-line issues.''  Casey's first party break came last week when he voted against expanded federal funding for embryonic stem cell research. His vote did not prevent the bill's passage, however, and his opposition to abortion rights is well known.  ''He has come as billed,'' said Christopher Borick, professor of political science at Muhlenberg College. ''If you are looking for surprises, you are not going to find them.''  His detractors put a somewhat different slant on the same idea. ''He is pretty much what we expected,'' said state Republican Party spokesman Michael Barley. ''He has rightfully assumed his place in the back bench like we thought he was going to.''  Unlike his four fellow Pennsylvania freshman in Congress, all of whom serve in the House and face re-election every two years, Casey has years before he needs to worry about another campaign. His term is not up until 2013. He said he's not made a single fundraising call for himself since late October.  ''When I first got here I just couldn't believe that I could spend an entire day and then a week and then a month doing nothing but government,'' he said.  That will soon end, he added. His staff is planning a fundraiser for May.  Casey has also confronted the practical matters involved with his election to the Senate: moving.  He said he rents a small apartment atop a garage in northwest Washington, but spends barely any time there. He normally makes the four-hour drive to Washington on Monday and usually returns to Scranton on Friday.  ''From what I've been through the last decade, that is like going around the corner,'' said Casey, who spent most of the last decade working in Harrisburg and traveling around the state. ''But the number of nights in a row [away] is unusual for me. ... We are all adjusting to it.''  He recently settled into an office on the third floor of the Russell Office Building, after spending his first two months in the basement with other freshmen. The walls are still bare and one of the few items in the tall ceilinged-room is a coal miner's helmet propped atop a coat rack near the door. On a side table is a framed prayer card that was handed out to mourners at his father's funeral, which shows a drawing of Casey Sr. next to a meditation.  Casey said he has bonded with a lot of the 10 other freshmen senators, but is reluctant to name his closest pals on the Hill. When pressed, he said just from a geographical perspective, he and Ohio Democrat Sherrod Brown have a lot in common.  But he constantly appears to fear leaving anyone out.  ''But I've been impressed by the veterans too,'' he said. ''I've been very impressed by the leadership of [Majority Leader] Harry Reid.''  Casey hasn't had to deal with natural disasters in the state during his first months in office, but has responded to several large constituent issues. He toured the state recently to listen to farmers' concerns and introduced an amendment seeking $125 million in emergency relief for Pennsylvania dairy farmers, who have been hurt by rising fuel and feed costs. He acknowledges that he's ''not holding his breath that that $125 million will be forthcoming.'' He also met with Department of Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns to request relief from the department, which so far has not come.  In February, after the Bush administration revealed plans to cancel a $100 million loan crucial to the construction of a coal-to-liquid plant in Schuylkill County, Casey worked with Sen. Arlen Specter, R-Pa., and Rep. Tim Holden, D-17th District, and helped persuade the White House to restore the loan.  He's opened four offices -- in Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, Scranton and Harrisburg. He plans to open an office in the Lehigh Valley in the next several weeks. During his weeklong recess earlier this month, he spent two days in Pittsburgh, a day in Allentown and a day in Philadelphia.  ''He is putting some effort into constituency building,'' said Mike Young, a Harrisburg pollster and former professor of political science at Penn State University.  And while Young said 100 days is too early to tell much about a senator's performance, he rates Casey highly in his first few months in office.  ''He's doing the right things, going in the right direction,'' he said. ''I think so far so good would be the way I would sum it up.''  
Press Contact
 