Casey Visits Harrisburg Domestic Violence Center  July 16, 2007  WASHINGTON, DC-U.S. Senator Bob Casey (D-PA) today joined the Pennsylvania Coalition Against Domestic Violence (PCADV) and YWCA officials to tour the YWCA Domestic Violence Center in Harrisburg. At todays visit, Senator Casey discussed the $450,000 the Senate Appropriations Committee approved for a comprehensive training, education and prevention institute which would create programs to address the high incidence of domestic violence homicides in Pennsylvania.  This money will help bring light to women facing the darkness of domestic violence, said Casey. Although this is just the first step, I will continue to work with Senator Specter to ensure that the Pennsylvania Coalition Against Domestic Violence is given every opportunity to help women who are faced with the evil of domestic violence. Senators Casey and Specter sought the funding on behalf of PCADV to establish a statewide Training, Education and Prevention Institute that would create innovative programs and materials; build the capacity of community-based domestic violence service providers; and educate the public and systems responding to domestic violence on effective strategies to prevent it. Susan Kelly-Dreiss, PCADV Executive Director, expressed the gratitude of Pennsylvanias 61 community-based domestic violence programs to Senators Casey and Specter for their persistence in pursuing funding: Since 2000, our Commonwealth has mourned the murders of more than 700 domestic violence victims. The need for strategic and broad-based training and awareness is critical and profound. As Auditor General and then as State Treasurer, Senator Casey adopted the Commonwealths first department-wide policy and training in support of employees victimized by domestic violence, sexual assault and stalking.  Of the total amount, $350,000 was included in the bill passed by the Senate Appropriations Committee on June 28 that will fund the Departments of Commerce and Justice in 2008. The remaining $100,000 was included in the Health, Education and Labor spending bill passed by the full Committee on June 21. These bills will head to the floor for a vote before the full Senate. The bills will then proceed to the House-Senate Conference Committee, before final passage in both chambers, and are expected to be signed into law later this fall. ### 
Press Contact
                        Kendra Barkoff (202) 228-6367
                     