Parking garage funds set aside; Casey hopes $500,000 will be approved to repair the deteriorating facility in Altoona August 17, 2007  U.S. Sen. Bob Casey Jr. toured the Altoona Transportation Center and the parking garage that houses the travel hub Thursday to see what $500,000 in federal money will do for the city. These are bipartisan issues, Casey, D-Pa., said after having seen what more than 30 years has done to the concrete and steel parking garage. In 2003, the Altoona Parking Authority discovered that steel tendons within the garages concrete floors were starting to show signs of fatigue.  Several tendons, which are undulating bands of steel running side to side and embedded in the concrete, have snapped.  The structural integrity of the garage remains sound, said Pat Miller, authority executive director. Still, the age of the structure and an inspection by an engineering firm indicate the problem needs to be addressed. But paying for the repairs wont be easy without the still tentative $500,000 in federal funds, Miller said.  With almost half of the authoritys revenue going to pay its debts each year  debt associated with the construction of the garage  any gaps in state or federal dollars likely will mean the work is pushed back.  The total project will be a $2.2 million rehabilitation of the garage and basement level transportation center that houses Greyhound and Amtrak. The funds Casey is set to deliver are packaged in the Senates Transportation, Treasury, Judiciary, Housing and Urban Development appropriations bill.  Although the bill has passed through committee, it hasnt come to a full vote, and Casey admitted he didnt like to predict how these things will turn out.  With Pennsylvanias senior senator, Republican Arlen Specter, heading the committee, Casey said the funding wasnt a long shot. Casey said that with increasing scrutiny on district earmarks, its important to find projects with the maximum benefit to the state and the community. Miller said the 204-space garage was built in the early 1970s, and the transportation center was added a decade later. Repairing the structure, he said, is the only viable option.  Moving the center to a spot with open, flat parking isnt feasible, Miller said, a sentiment shared by Center City Coordinator Bob Scholl. You dont have to plow a garage, Scholl said. About 200 vehicles a day use the facility on 11th Avenue for short-term and long-term parking. 
Press Contact
 