Casey focuses on ethics in Senate debut January 17, 2007  WASHINGTON -- U.S. Sen. Bob Casey yesterday introduced a bill that would criminalize efforts by lawmakers to use political favors to influence hiring decisions at private companies. It includes a penalty of up to 15 years in prison. The bill, which the Pennsylvania Democrat hopes to add to a larger ethics package being considered by the Senate this week, is a reaction to the K Street project, an attempt by conservative activists to place Republican loyalists in influential positions in the lobbying ranks during the years of GOP control of Congress. On the campaign trail last year, Mr. Casey repeatedly accused former Sen. Rick Santorum of having close ties to that project and of failing to push his colleagues for some of the broad changes in ethics rules now under consideration. I think it's long overdue, Mr. Casey said yesterday in his first speech on the Senate floor since being sworn in last week. I think it's high time to end this corruption. Mr. Santorum distanced himself from the project, but, as GOP conference chair, he did host weekly meetings of lobbyists where, according to widespread reports at the time, lobbying personnel as well as policy issues were regularly discussed. Sen. Diane Feinstein, D-Calif., voiced support for adding Mr. Casey's amendment to the larger ethics package, although it wasn't added yesterday. She is in charge of managing the package on the Senate floor. Melanie Sloan, executive director of Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington, or CREW, said Mr. Casey's goals are laudable, but she expressed doubts that prosecutors could ever obtain potential witnesses. I think he's on the right track, but it's going to be really hard to enforce, Ms. Sloan said. You'd have to have someone testify that a lawmaker flat out told them they would be withholding action because of an employment decision. When the K Street project was at its height several years ago, Ms. Sloan said she tried to find a lobbyist willing to sue former House Majority Leader Tom DeLay, a Texas Republican who resigned from Congress last year. I couldn't find anyone who was willing to do this because they were so worried about whether they'd ever get another job in Washington, she said. Still, Ms. Sloan said Mr. Casey's proposal had strong symbolic value, and even the threat of criminal charges could be enough to dissuade lawmakers from trying to influence hiring decisions at private firms.   
Press Contact
 