Casey, Murphy Move Forward with Measure to Support Flood Victims  October 17, 2007  WASHINGTON, D.C.- The Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee today passed an amendment introduced by U.S. Senator Bob Casey (D-PA) that would help victims of flooding navigate through the bureaucracy by establishing a National Flood Insurance Advocate. The amendment was included in the managers package to the Flood Insurance Reform and Modernization Act 2007 and the bill was passed out of the Banking Committee. Last month, Congressman Patrick Murphy (D-PA) introduced and the U.S. House of Representatives passed the companion amendment.  Flooding can cause catastrophic damage to peoples homes and their lives, said Casey. Much of the time, too many victims of flooding get stuck in the red tape of the bureaucracy and are unable to receive the services they need on a timely basis. By establishing a National Advocate, these victims will be assisted in a timely manner so that they can get their lives back on track.  A flood insurance advocate would give families and business owners critical assistance instead of endless bureaucracy, said Congressman Patrick Murphy. After surviving a storm and the uncertainty that follows, it shouldnt be so hard to get help. I am proud to work with Senator Casey as we work toward establishing a National Flood Insurance Advocate and give flood victims someone to turn to when they need it most. The National Flood Advocate would be appointed by and report directly to the Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and must have a background in customer service and insurance as well as representing individuals insured. The Advocate will have the authority to establish regional offices as well as establish temporary local offices where necessary to following a flood. To ensure independence of the office, the Advocate would be prohibited from working for FEMA in the prior two years and would be barred from working for FEMA for the two years after they leave the position.  The Advocate must also submit annual reports documenting and analyzing areas in which individuals are having trouble with FEMA and the flood insurance program and what the agency is doing to help improve services. The report would also provide recommendations for administrative action to help improve the problems.  Last, the Advocate would be empowered to issue Assistance Recommendations, which the Director of FEMA would have to respond to by either fulfilling the recommendation or providing a written explanation for why the recommendation was not followed.  The Flood Insurance Reform and Modernization Act 2007 now heads to the Senate floor where it awaits a vote. The bill will then have to be approved by the full Congress and the President of the United States before the law is final.  ### 
Press Contact
                        Kendra Barkoff (202) 228-6367
                     