Casey Joins Freshman Senators to Call for Commission to Investigate Wartime Contracting  July 18, 2007  WASHINGTON, DC-U.S. Senator Bob Casey (D-PA) today joined his eight freshman Democratic colleagues in introducing a bill to establish an independent, bipartisan Commission on Wartime Contracting to investigate contracting in Iraq and Afghanistan. The Commission would significantly increase transparency and accountability and generate important solutions for systematic contracting problems, potentially saving taxpayers billions of dollars. As a former Pennsylvania Auditor General, I know firsthand the need to aggressively root out waste in government, said Senator Casey. But it is especially egregious for companies doing business in Iraq to profit from fraud and abuse AND for taxpayer dollars to be lost as our troops are in harms way. The Commission will work in consultation with a newly-expanded Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction (SIGIR) that will be authorized to go beyond a narrow focus on reconstruction funding and audit and investigate all support contracts associated with Operation Iraqi Freedom and Operation Enduring Freedom. This collaborative effort will result in specific findings and recommendations to improve inter-agency wartime contracting. There are now more contractors (180,000) than military personnel (156, 247) in Iraq. A list of companies contracted in support of Operations Iraqi Freedom and Enduring Freedom does not exist. Figures on how much the government is paying contractors does not exist. The Government Accountability Office reported that between fiscal years 2003 and 2006, the U.S. government has allocated more than $300 billion to support stabilization and reconstruction efforts in Iraq alone. This increasing reliance on contractors exposes billions of taxpayer dollars to potential misuse and waste. Senator Casey was joined by Senators Jim Webb (D-VA), Clare McCaskill (D-MO), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Bernie Sanders (I-VT), Jon Tester (D-MT), Sherrod Brown (D-OH),Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI) and Ben Cardin (D-MD) in introducing the bill. The bill is inspired by the work of the Truman Committee which conducted hundreds of hearings and investigations into government waste during WWII at an estimated savings of more than $178 billion (in todays dollars) to the American taxpayer. Majority Whip Dick Durbin (D-IL), Armed Services Committee Chairman Carl Levin (D-MI) and Senators Tom Carper (D-DE), John Kerry (D-MA), Diane Feinstein (D-CA), Barbara Boxer (D-CA), Barack Obama (D-IL) and Tim Johnson (D-SD) also serve as co-sponsors of the original amendment, filed as no. 2206, to the National Defense Authorization Act.  ###  
Press Contact
                        Kendra Barkoff (202) 228-6367
                     