Senators Specter and Casey Announce Senate Approval of Pennsylvania Agriculture Projects  December 19, 2007 Washington, D.C. - U.S. Senators Arlen Specter, a senior member of the Appropriations Committee, and Bob Casey, the junior Senator from Pennsylvania, announced today the Senate has approved funding for several Pennsylvania agriculture projects. The projects are contained in the Fiscal Year 2008 Consolidated Appropriations Bill.These programs will strengthen the states agricultural industry by developing innovative technologies to improve production and management of Pennsylvanias farms, Senator Specter said. I applaud my colleagues for funding these agricultural projects that are fundamental to keeping Pennsylvanias economy strong.Pennsylvanias farmers are an important part of our states economy, earning $45 billion a year in direct and indirect revenues, said Senator Casey. This funding will give our agriculture industry a much needed boost while developing new technologies for our farmers, and I thank my colleagues for approving these projects.The bill will now be sent back to the House for approval and must be signed into law by the President of the United States before funding is final.Agriculture projects in the bill include: *House Members that also supported a project are indicated in parentheses-$586,863 for the Milk Safety program at Penn State University to help researchers better understand the microbiology of the Listeria organism to ensure a safe milk supply. (John Peterson) -$372,375 for the Dairy Farm Profitability project at Penn State University to research the economic and social dimensions of dairy farming in an attempt to help farmers increase their profitability. (Peterson) -$248,250 for Agricultural Entrepreneurial Alternatives for Small Farmers at Penn State University to deliver farm and community level educational programs and assistance. (Peterson) -$223,425 for the Cooperative Livestock Protection Program to expand the program to all Pennsylvanias 59,000 agricultural producers. The program, operated by the Pennyslvania Department of Agriculture and USDA, provides technical and operational assistance in identifying, controlling, and abating damage, animal health problems and economic loss caused by certain nuisance wildlife species. (Tim Holden, John Murtha) -$163,845 for Aquaculture Research at the Cheyney University of Pennsylvania in Delaware County to conduct research in urban aquaculture processes and technology. (Jim Gerlach) -$141,999 for Sustainable Agriculture at the Rodale Institute in Berks County, in conjunction with the Pennsylvania State University, to research sustainable field crop production. This funding will help provide science-based alternatives to Pennsylvania farmers to adopt more sustainable farming practices. (Peterson) -$74,475 for the Center for Dairy Excellence in Dauphin County to develop and provide technical support to Pennsylvania dairy producers through existing and new programs developed by the Center.  -$1,328,634 for the Geographic Information Systems Project. This national project, done in conjunction with Penn State and Wilkes Universities, provides for the capturing, storing, analyzing, and managing of data to be used for resource management, asset management, urban planning, and environmental impact assessment by rural municipalities and governments. (Paul Kanjorski) In addition, the Agriculture Appropriations Subcommittee has granted funding for the following national programs that are expected to benefit Pennsylvania:- $30.442 million for combating Emerald Ash Borer. This funding will enable states infested with the Emerald Ash Borer to manage the spread of the invasive species from further infecting ash trees, as well as to develop techniques and technologies to eradicate the pest. The beetle was recently discovered in Butler County. -$1.548 million for the Viticulture Consortium to provide for grape and wine research in Pennsylvania, New York, and California. The consortium assists grape producers in improving yields, reducing production costs, and increasing product. -$2.184 million for Plum Pox research. The Plum Pox virus is the most serious disease of stone fruits, making the fruit unmarketable and causing tree decline and death. The disease was first discovered in the United States in Adams County in 1999.  -$10.539 million for Johnes Disease research. This funding will further research to control and eliminate Johne's disease in cattle, sheep, goats and deer. The disease is a bacterial infection that causes decreased milk production, reduced fertility and death. According to USDA, about 22 percent of U.S. dairy farms are infected with this disease.  -$8.44 million for the Specialty Crop Block Grant Program. This funding will provide assistance to states to enhance the competitiveness of their states specialty crops. Pennsylvania is eligible to submit an application to USDA for $100,000. In addition, Pennsylvania would receive money that represents the proportion of the value of specialty crop production in relation to the national value of specialty crop production. -$868,875 for the Veterinary Medical Services Act. This funding will help the USDA to implement the National Veterinary Medical Services Act to provide student loan repayment to veterinary school graduates who agree to work in underserved areas of the country. # # # Washington, D.C. - U.S. Senators Arlen Specter, a senior member of the Appropriations Committee, and Bob Casey, the junior Senator from Pennsylvania, announced today the Senate has approved funding for several Pennsylvania agriculture projects. The projects are contained in the Fiscal Year 2008 Consolidated Appropriations Bill. These programs will strengthen the states agricultural industry by developing innovative technologies to improve production and management of Pennsylvanias farms, Senator Specter said. I applaud my colleagues for funding these agricultural projects that are fundamental to keeping Pennsylvanias economy strong. Pennsylvanias farmers are an important part of our states economy, earning $45 billion a year in direct and indirect revenues, said Senator Casey. This funding will give our agriculture industry a much needed boost while developing new technologies for our farmers, and I thank my colleagues for approving these projects. The bill will now be sent back to the House for approval and must be signed into law by the President of the United States before funding is final. Agriculture projects in the bill include:  *House Members that also supported a project are indicated in parentheses -$586,863 for the Milk Safety program at Penn State University to help researchers better understand the microbiology of the Listeria organism to ensure a safe milk supply. (John Peterson) -$372,375 for the Dairy Farm Profitability project at Penn State University to research the economic and social dimensions of dairy farming in an attempt to help farmers increase their profitability. (Peterson) -$248,250 for Agricultural Entrepreneurial Alternatives for Small Farmers at Penn State University to deliver farm and community level educational programs and assistance. (Peterson) -$223,425 for the Cooperative Livestock Protection Program to expand the program to all Pennsylvanias 59,000 agricultural producers. The program, operated by the Pennyslvania Department of Agriculture and USDA, provides technical and operational assistance in identifying, controlling, and abating damage, animal health problems and economic loss caused by certain nuisance wildlife species. (Tim Holden, John Murtha) -$163,845 for Aquaculture Research at the Cheyney University of Pennsylvania in Delaware County to conduct research in urban aquaculture processes and technology. (Jim Gerlach) -$141,999 for Sustainable Agriculture at the Rodale Institute in Berks County, in conjunction with the Pennsylvania State University, to research sustainable field crop production. This funding will help provide science-based alternatives to Pennsylvania farmers to adopt more sustainable farming practices. (Peterson) -$74,475 for the Center for Dairy Excellence in Dauphin County to develop and provide technical support to Pennsylvania dairy producers through existing and new programs developed by the Center.  -$1,328,634 for the Geographic Information Systems Project. This national project, done in conjunction with Penn State and Wilkes Universities, provides for the capturing, storing, analyzing, and managing of data to be used for resource management, asset management, urban planning, and environmental impact assessment by rural municipalities and governments. (Paul Kanjorski) In addition, the Agriculture Appropriations Subcommittee has granted funding for the following national programs that are expected to benefit Pennsylvania:  - $30.442 million for combating Emerald Ash Borer. This funding will enable states infested with the Emerald Ash Borer to manage the spread of the invasive species from further infecting ash trees, as well as to develop techniques and technologies to eradicate the pest. The beetle was recently discovered in Butler County. -$1.548 million for the Viticulture Consortium to provide for grape and wine research in Pennsylvania, New York, and California. The consortium assists grape producers in improving yields, reducing production costs, and increasing product. -$2.184 million for Plum Pox research. The Plum Pox virus is the most serious disease of stone fruits, making the fruit unmarketable and causing tree decline and death. The disease was first discovered in the United States in Adams County in 1999.  -$10.539 million for Johnes Disease research. This funding will further research to control and eliminate Johne's disease in cattle, sheep, goats and deer. The disease is a bacterial infection that causes decreased milk production, reduced fertility and death. According to USDA, about 22 percent of U.S. dairy farms are infected with this disease.  -$8.44 million for the Specialty Crop Block Grant Program. This funding will provide assistance to states to enhance the competitiveness of their states specialty crops. Pennsylvania is eligible to submit an application to USDA for $100,000. In addition, Pennsylvania would receive money that represents the proportion of the value of specialty crop production in relation to the national value of specialty crop production. -$868,875 for the Veterinary Medical Services Act. This funding will help the USDA to implement the National Veterinary Medical Services Act to provide student loan repayment to veterinary school graduates who agree to work in underserved areas of the country. # # #  
Press Contact
                        Kendra Barkoff (202) 228-6367
                     