Casey off to good start January 19, 2007  Rick Santorum's Centre County ties were well-known: He graduated from Penn State, worked for former state Sen. J. Doyle Corman, R-Bellefonte, before launching his own political career and owned rental properties in State College. Bob Casey, who defeated Santorum in November, is doing the two-term U.S. senator one better: Casey plans to open an office here.  That is good news, indeed, for the region, and it reflects -- or so it appears -- Casey's recognition of the area's importance.  Actually, Casey intends to open eight regional offices: larger ones in Harrisburg, Philadelphia and Pittsburgh and one-person operations in Erie, Scranton, Allentown, suburban Philadelphia and here.  As far as anyone can tell, this will be the first time a U.S. senator has had a branch office in Happy Valley, to which we say, It's about time.  While the area's movers and shakers, Republican politicos and perhaps his tenants had Santorum's ear, Casey's presence -- through field coordinator Kim Bierly -- will mean that everyone in the multicounty region the office will serve will have access to Pennsylvania's junior senator.  Power, as they say, to the people.  I think this is a very big deal for Centre County, Dianne Gregg said. The central part of the state is finally getting some attention.  While Gregg, as the county's Democratic chairwoman, is hardly an unbiased observer, in this case she is right.  And now that we're getting the attention, it is incumbent upon us -- all of us -- to parlay that into the influence (subtle and otherwise) we have long felt we deserved.  His detractors have accused Casey of capitalizing on his famous name -- his father, of course, was governor -- while offering little of substance, but his first few days in Washington would seem to prove those critics wrong.  In addition to the regional-office plan, Casey has already offered another noteworthy proposal: ending the notorious K Street Project.  Named for the avenue of preference for many lobbying firms, the K Street Project encouraged -- to use a euphemism for strong-armed -- those firms to hire Republicans in order to conduct business as usual with the political party in power in Congress.  It's high time to end this corruption, to end this practice which for too long has been part of the culture of corruption in Washington, Casey said in one of his first speeches on the Senate floor.  You go, Bob.  Casey's amendment, if adopted, would penalize members of Congress who wrongfully influence hiring decisions made by a private entity -- a practice that many observers say led to an atmosphere that not only permitted, it encouraged the excesses exhibited by the admittedly corrupt (he pleaded guilty, after all) Jack Abramoff.  Violators would be subject to a fine and up to 15 years -- possibly with Abramoff himself -- in prison.  No one knows, of course, if the Democrats, now that they are in charge of guarding the cookie jar, will be able to keep their hands off what's inside any more than the Republicans could, or be any more responsive to constituents than their opponents seemed to be.  But by opening an office in State College and speaking out for lobbying reform, Casey has certainly gotten off to an auspicious start.  
Press Contact
 