Health care of children top issue for Casey during tour stop in Williamsport  June 19, 2007  U.S. Sen. Bob Casey gave several groups of children as much time as he gave the adults during a visit Monday to Susquehanna Healths community health and dental clinics.  The freshman Democratic senator from Scranton was impressed with what he saw in the two side-by-side clinics in the Hepburn Plaza, however.  He called them unique and worth copying. We need, as best we can, to replicate these kinds of models, he said after his visit.  Caseys visit was part of a day-long stay in the area focusing on health care issues such as the pending legislation to continue funding the federal State Childrens Health Insurance Program.  Susquehanna Health officials on hand included Steven Johnson, president and CEO, and Casey let him know he was impressed by the quality of the clinics, a comment echoed by patients in the waiting area for appointments with doctors or dentists.  Excellent, said Paul Bowmaster of West Fourth Street, who was waiting for his wife with daughter Jasmine Bowmaster, 7, and step-daughter Naomi Medley.  Bowmaster said he didnt know what the family would do without the clinics.  (We) wouldnt be able to afford it (health care), he said.  Casey took several minutes to talk with both children, as well as Caitlyn Hauser, 5, of Woodward Township, who was with her mother, Jennifer Cowher, waiting with her great-aunt Kim Volpe of Muncy, who had an appointment.  I give the clinic a great rating, said Volpe.  According to Gloria Scharper, manager of the two clinics, usage rose 13-percent in March, April and May after the February move to the new location from Divine Providence Hospital sites.  The clinic may be located in Lycoming County and serve mainly county residents, but it draws people from neighboring areas, including Sunbury. According to health system officials, the two clinics may be the only ones of their kind that a hospital system subsidizes in the region, and possible in the state.  One reality of the clinic is its usefulness for working people who cant afford insurance coverage or only limited coverage. They are welcome, as well as very low income patients or unemployed patients, according to health system staff, and a sliding payment scale based on income and payment plans are available.  Johnson said the senator seemed to understand the health systems Medicare subsidy dilemma and is supportive of getting another one-year adjustment to make up for the 9 percent less the health system has been receiving from Medicare compared to other region hospitals.  Casey called the the state-of-the-art clinics great news for the area.  Ive been in a lot of health care settings around the state, he said. This is unique.  But he also warned that they and other health care initiatives cant provide care unless we (Congress) provide the program funding to support them.  Federal funding for the childrens health insurance initiative should be continued and expanded, he said.  Casey said legislation has been proposed to provide $10 billion over five years to keep the program going, but he said that was a tiny drop in the bucket compared to the number of children across the country without a medical care safety net and suggested $50 billion over five years would be more appropriate.  He accused the Bush administration of going in the wrong direction on the issue and said Pennsylvania led the way when his late father, Gov. Robert P. Casey, began a childrens health insurance program while in Harrisburg and Gov. Ed Rendell is in favor of expanding the initiative.  About 161,000 Pennsylvania children now receive health care through the program, but the senator said at least 133,000 more are without coverage and that is a low estimate.  Casey left here for facilities in Lewisburg and Milton to focus on long-term care for senior citizens and recognize Pennsylvanias more than 123,000 direct care workers in celebration of National Nursing Assistants Week.  Although health care topics were on the senators mind during his visit, he gave the local news media a few minutes before his tour at the Hepburn Plaza to ask other questions.  Casey said he voted against the troop surge in Iraq and supports a change in strategy to focus on going after and killing terrorists and further training the Iraqis to take over the rest.  We need a redeployment date, he said, and we need a much more focused effort on diplomacy.  As for the other hot-topic issue  illegal immigration  he said border security needs to be a priority and the media has to do a better job reporting on the issue.  We need accuracy and we need bipartisanship, he said.  Asked about the chances of federal funding for a highway project in the Sunbury area, Casey seemed in favor of the project, but was unable to promise when or if funding would be allocated.  I dont make magic-wand promises, he said. 
Press Contact
 