Commissary gets reprieve until '09; Casey, others push for new facility September 19, 2007  WASHINGTON -- The Charles E. Kelly Support Facility in Collier will remain open at least until September 2009, U.S. Sen. Bob Casey said yesterday. The commissary, which sells discounted goods to active, reserve and retired military personnel, was originally scheduled to close next year under the recommendations of the Pentagon's Base Realignment and Closure Commission, but officials informed Mr. Casey, D-Pa., on Monday of their decision to delay the closing. He and Sen. Arlen Specter, R-Pa., have put $4 million in the 2008 defense appropriations bill to build a new facility. The bill is currently being considered by the full Senate. Rep. Tim Murphy, R-Upper St. Clair, secured a similar sum in the House's version. Another strong backer is Rep. John Murtha, D-Johnstown, who chairs the powerful House panel on defense spending. With these resources, and the commitment that the Defense Department has made, I feel confident that we'll have a new facility, Mr. Casey said. The question is when it will be on line. Still, a new commissary isn't a certainty. The facility could cost as much as $9.8 million, Mr. Casey said. He and other members of the state's delegation plan to push for the additional funding in next year's appropriations bill. Allegheny County has agreed to hand over to the military land near Pittsburgh International Airport, at Business Route 60 and University Boulevard. Mr. Casey expressed concern that the quality of service at the current facility may decline as the military considers a move. In August, he and other members of the delegation sent a letter to Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates to complain that his department had started reducing inventories and staffing at the support facility without providing a suitable alternative. We'll continue to fight for a guarantee that there will be no disruptions, Mr. Casey said yesterday. As many as 160,000 former and current military personnel in Pennsylvania, Maryland and West Virginia are eligible to use the commissary. 
Press Contact
 