Casey Introduces Superfund Bill; Earth Day Statement April 20, 2007 WASHINGTON, DC-U.S. Senator Bob Casey (D-PA) introduced a bill to clean up polluted, toxic sites known as Superfund sites. He also released a statement commemorating Earth Day and highlighting some of the pressing environmental issues that he will address in the U.S. Senate.  The Superfund Equity and Megasite Remediation Act of 2007 would reinstate the 'polluters pay' principle and would also create a specific fund to clean up megasites - toxic sites that are so polluted they would cost over $50 million to clean up, said Senator Casey. Pennsylvania has 7 megasites. This legislation will help Pennsylvania and other states clean up these toxic sites and make the polluters and not the taxpayers foot the bill.  Senator Casey's Superfund Equity and Megasite Remediation Act would: (1) reinstate the polluter-pays tax and make it permanent; and (2) increase the tax by 50% a year for 5 years to fund the clean up of megasites (sites that cost more the $50 million to remediate) with a new Megasites Cleanup and High Risk Sites Account. The bill also requires EPA to make an annual report to Congress and update the number of Superfund sites, response actions at each site, and estimated clean up costs for each site.  Senator Casey's statement for the record on Earth Day is attached. Excerpts are below:  This Sunday we will celebrate Earth Day, a day when we should reaffirm our commitment to a clean, safe, and healthy environment for our children and future generations.  Climate change is certainly the most pressing environmental issue facing us today. But we should not forget about other important issues facing our constituents. Reducing mercury and other air pollutants, reducing pollution of our rivers and streams, preserving open space and stopping urban sprawl, increasing investments in renewable and alterative energy sources, establishing higher fuel efficiency standards, and reducing the number of unremediated Superfund sites continue to be top priorities for me.  
Press Contact
                        Larry Smar (202) 228-6367
                     