Updated Schedule: Casey To Honor The Lifetime Achievement Of The Reverend Leon H. Sullivan April 20, 2007 WASHINGTON, DC - On Monday, April 23rd, U.S. Senator Bob Casey (D-PA) will honor the lifetime achievement of the Reverend Leon H. Sullivan with a series of events in Washington, DC. Guests from Reverend Sullivan's family, various foundations and organizations he founded as well as the entire Pennsylvania Congressional delegation have been invited to take part the day's festivities.  April 24th marks the sixth anniversary of the passing of one of America's great leaders, Leon Sullivan, said Casey. I am honored to pay tribute to the man who literally changed the face of the world- a man of peace who achieved his mission in life through concrete action beyond his rhetorical prowess.  Reverend Sullivan was a Baptist minister, a civil rights leader, and a social activist. He was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 1992 by President George H. W. Bush, honoring him for his lifetime of work in helping the economically and socially disadvantaged people of the world.  Reverend Sullivan served as a pastor of the Zion Baptist Church in Philadelphia. His work as a minister taught him to give aid to those who can't stand on their own.  As a result, Sullivan founded Opportunities Industrialization Centers (OIC) of America, OIC International, and the International Foundation for Education and Self-Help (IFESH) to educate and motivate a more productive workforce. These organizations helped to reduce poverty and unemployment on both a national and global scale. In 2001, the Leon H. Sullivan foundation was established posthumously to carry on his life's work.  Sullivan worked closely with Martin Luther King, Jr. to help end segregation in this country and created the Sullivan Principles to promote responsible global economic development and confront apartheid.  He was the author of several books and received over fifty honorary doctorate degrees. For more information about Reverend Sullivan go to: http://www.thesullivanfoundation.org/foundation/rev/index.asp  2:00pm, Senator Casey will speak on the Senate floor and introduce a resolution to commemorate the life and legacy of Leon Sullivan.  2:30pm, Senator Casey will host a reception honoring Reverend Sullivan and his family in the Russell Caucus room.  3:00pm, remarks will be given by Senator Casey and Hope Masters, Leon Sullivan's daughter. At the reception, Casey will also formally establish the Leon Sullivan Internship awarded to a deserving student from the Philadelphia area.  
Press Contact
                        Kendra Barkoff (202) 228-6367
                     