Breakfast fare for Casey: Constituents' concerns  April 20, 2007  WASHINGTON - Supporters usually open their homes to friends so they can get to know a candidate or to raise money for a campaign over coffee and finger food.In a move aimed at increasing openness, U.S. Sen. Bob Casey Jr., D-Pa., is trying to turn the tables. He hosted about 40 constituents during an informal Breakfast with Bob on Capitol Hill.  It's just a great way to stay in touch with people, constituents principally, but even people who want to get a point across, Casey said.  Though the breakfast fare was spare -- coffee and two trays of donuts and other treats that mostly went uneaten -- the concept of the informal get-together went over well with groups grateful for the face time or those just pressed for time.  It gives us an opportunity to meet with him face-to-face when we might not have been able to otherwise, said Anthony J. Martino, chief executive of Select Specialty Hospital in Greensburg and McKeesport.  Martino, whose hospitals are part of Mechanicsburg-based Select Medical Corp., was in Washington for a company-wide meeting and only learned of the event because they had been notifying lawmakers they would be in the city.  For Andrew Susko, president-elect of the Pennsylvania Bar Association, it was a time-saver.  We have scheduled 14 visits with the Pennsylvania delegation, said Susko, who led a group lobbying for increased spending on legal services for the poor during the American Bar Association day on the Hill.  This was a good slot to be efficient with our time and the senator's time, Susko said before heading out the door after briefly making their case to Casey, his chief of staff and his general counsel.  While the goal was to attract and listen to the concerns of Pennsylvanians visiting Washington who might not otherwise meet their lawmakers, about half those attending were Washington-based lobbyists taking advantage of the reception to press the flesh with Casey and top aides, who worked the room as well.  We don't want it to be just a Washington event because people here have ample access, Casey said.  For the second of four planned coffees (the first was held last month with little fanfare), Casey's office mostly used its Web site and informed groups or individuals that planned to be in town about the event.  The events are not intended to replace Casey's meetings in Pennsylvania, but to provide a less-formal means to interact with constituents.  The idea was stolen from other lawmakers, including Democrats Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid and Majority Whip Dick Durbin, who have done similar sessions for years.  There are very few original ideas in Washington, said Casey, as he conceded being a copycat. 
Press Contact
 