Senators Specter and Casey Announce Final Approval of Lehigh Valley Health, Education and Labor Projects  December 20, 2007  Washington, D.C. - U.S. Senators Arlen Specter, Ranking Member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, and Bob Casey, the junior Senator of Pennsylvania, announced today the full Congress has approved funding for several Lehigh Valley health care, education and labor projects.  The projects are contained in the Fiscal Year 2008 Consolidated Appropriations Bill. I am pleased that the Congress has approved this important funding for the Lehigh Valley, Senator Specter said.  Health and education are our nations greatest capital assets, and these projects are vital to ensuring quality health care and education for the areas residents. This money is great news for the Lehigh Valley and I am pleased that the President has signed this funding into law, said Senator Casey.  I will continue working with Senator Specter to ensure residents of the area have access to quality health care and education. The Bill must now be signed by the President of the United States before funding is final. Lehigh Valley Area projects in the bill include:  *House Members that also supported a project are indicated in parentheses -$85,480 for Albright College in Berks County for purchase of equipment for the biology and environmental sciences laboratory.  -$85,480 for Alvernia College in Berks County for development of the nursing education programs as part of a community partnership between the City of Reading, Alvernia College, and Centro Hispano. (Jim Gerlach)  -$85,480 for Berks County Intermediate Unit in Berks County for the PA Educational Music in the Schools Program.   -$85,480 for Reading Hospital and Medical Center in Berks County for a Surgical Robotics System for the Departments of Surgery and Obstetrics and Gynecology to expand its minimally invasive surgery capabilities.  -$85,480 for Moravian College in Northampton County for equipment, technology and curriculum development for the science initiative.  -$85,480 for Cedar Crest College in Lehigh County for continued development of a nursing education program, including support for clinical courses and further enhancement of its baccalaureate and graduate nursing program.  -$85,480 for Childrens Hospital of KidsPeace in Lehigh County to construct and equip therapeutic and educational facilities, and increase bed capacity for medical and psychiatric treatment areas.  -$85,480 for Community Services for Children, Inc. in Lehigh County to support the SafeStart for Fragile Families, a program which serves drug impacted, abused and neglected infants and toddlers.  -$85,480 for Good Shepherd Rehabilitation Hospital in Lehigh County for purchase of medical equipment for rehabilitative programs, as well as assistive technology for speech, occupational and physical therapy programs.   -$85,480 for Lehigh Valley Hospital and Health Network in Lehigh County for construction of their Phase II expansion of Cedar Crest Emergency Department.  -$85,480 for Muhlenberg College in Lehigh County for education and outreach services to support undergraduate students with disabilities. (Charlie Dent)  -$85,480 for Sacred Heart Hospital of Allentown in Lehigh County for purchase of equipment for an endovascular laboratory to permit diagnosis and non-surgical treatment of diseases.  -$85,480 for Saint Luke's Hospital in Lehigh County for expansion of the facility, including the emergency room, operating suites, labs and pharmacy.  -$85,480 for East Stroudsburg University in Monroe County for development of the forensic science education programs at their Cyber Crime and Forensics Institute. (Paul Kanjorski)  -$85,480 for Pocono Medical Center in Monroe County for expansion of the Dale and Frances Hughes Cancer Center facility.  # # #  
Press Contact
                        Kendra Barkoff (202) 228-6367
                     