Senate panel: Reach out, reduce crime  February 20, 2007  As Philadelphia struggles with a wave of violence, officials and community leaders yesterday cited mentoring as a critical tool in helping young people avoid being perpetrators or victims of crime.  At the National Constitution Center yesterday, U.S. Sens. Arlen Specter and Robert Casey Jr. held a joint hearing on Mentoring and Community Based Solutions to Delinquency and Youth Violence in Philadelphia. The session was sponsored by the Senate Judiciary Committee and the subcommittee on labor, health and human services.  Among the speakers were Police Commissioner Sylvester Johnson and Paul Vallas, chief executive officer of the Philadelphia School District.  After listening to the speakers, Specter said: I believe that mentoring is a real possibility for short-term results. We are talking about trying to prevent some of the underlying causes of crime.  Pointing to testimony that there are about 80,000 youths in Philadelphia who are at risk of being victims or perpetrators of violence, Specter said, If we could identify mentors, that could provide some immediate relief.  If you mentor a student and give them guidance, you may save a life, you may prevent a homicide, you may prevent a burglary, Specter said.  The senator said that he and Casey are going to see if we can expand the number of mentors in the Philadelphia area.  I intend to write to the area's college presidents to see if they can help, Specter said.  Casey said he learned the importance of mentoring in the early 1980s when he was working as a Jesuit volunteer teacher at the Gesu School in North Philadelphia.  I derived a lot from it, Casey said. You can be enriched yourself. We encourage people to be mentors.  Johnson said intervention programs were critical to reducing youth violence, noting that law enforcement was the last step in protecting children.  I say this because by the time a child comes to the attention of the police, the damage may already have been done, Johnson said. I strongly believe we need to address the social failures that cause children to resort to crime and violence.  Vallas said mentoring is critical to helping youths stay in school. He said the majority of crimes were committed by school dropouts.  You cut the dropout rate, you reduce the crime rate, Vallas said.  He said it was very important to keep kids in school and give them the idea that college is a distinct possibility. If you change the perception that college is beyond their reach, you can cut the dropout rate, Vallas said.  Both Vallas and Johnson pointed to the city's Youth Violence Reduction Partnership and the Adolescent Violence Reduction Partnership, comprehensive antiviolence programs that also offer mentoring as successful efforts to help curb youth violence.  Jennifer Carroll, a leader of Big Brothers and Big Sisters of Southeastern Pennsylvania, said there were 80,000 impoverished children in Philadelphia who are considered at-risk for violence and crime.  Carroll and others noted that Big Brothers and Big Sisters serves about 2,900 with mentoring and other services.  We are aggressively reaching out in our neighborhoods - in churches, colleges, businesses and social organizations - to inspire people to share their lives with children and to become mentors.  
Press Contact
 