Congress Set To Increase SCHIP Funding July 20, 2007  Public support for the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) has begotten a bipartisan push in Congress to increase its scope, with Democrats and even reputedly conservative members of the Senate Finance Committee advancing a measure to increase SCHIP's funding by $35 billion over the next five years. The expansion would bring total five-year SCHIP spending to $60 billion. Currently, most children covered under the federally-financed and state-administered entitlement live with families earning up to 200 percent of the federal poverty level (FPL) and do not qualify for Medicaid. Some states have secured federal approval to cover a limited number of adults and middle-income children under the program. A full Senate vote is expected next week on the funding increase designated to cover 3.3 million more children than the 6.6 million who already have SCHIP insurance. The White House has raised objections to the measure, and some members of the policy research community have echoed the administration's concerns. Democrats and Republicans on the Finance Committee have explained the expansion as a simple matter of caring for needy children. The Children's Health Insurance Program works to get health care to low-income, uninsured American children, and the Senate will not be deterred from helping more kids in need, said committee chairman Max Baucus, D-Mont. The president should stop playing politics and start working with Congress to help kids through the renewal of the Children's Health Insurance Program. Sen. Chuck Grassley, R-Iowa., couched the issue in similar terms. This proposal does the job in a way that both Republicans and Democrats can support, and I hope they do, Grassley said. The proposed expansion would lift the maximum qualifying family income level to 300 percent of the FPL, or about $51,510 for a family of three. SCHIP's implementation on the federal level took much of its inspiration from a state program in Pennsylvania enacted in 1992 under then-Gov. Robert Casey. The SCHIP program is a highly successful one, Larry Smar, a spokesperson for Sen. Robert Casey, Jr., D-Penn., told The Bulletin. The firming up of the SCHIP program is going to have tremendous positive effects. Some states, including Pennsylvania, have already begun to raise their ceilings on who can qualify. Gov. Ed Rendell instituted such a change earlier this year under his Cover All Kids initiative.  Under Pennsylvania's program, children can receive SCHIP insurance for free or at low cost if their families make up to 300 percent of the FPL. Families earning more than that can get coverage at cost, for an average monthly premium of $150. The federal government contributed over $184 million to Pennsylvania's SCHIP program in the 2006-2007 fiscal year. The state contributed over $88 million. While Pennsylvania has not changed its SCHIP program to cover any adults, some states have. In 2005, adults constituted a majority of enrollees in Minnesota and Wisconsin, according to Kathryn G. Allen, health care director at the Government Accountability Office. Many, including the Bush administration, see problems with broadening the program's reach. Such critics of increasing eligibility point out that many children whose parents are low-income earners do have access to medical insurance. The Congressional Budget Office has stated that 50 percent of children with parents earning between 100 percent and 200 percent of the FPL are enrolled in private health plans, while 77 percent of children with parents earning between 200 percent and 300 percent of FPL have private coverage. Supporters of the measure suggest that so long as the net outcome of SCHIP expansion is an increase in the overall number of children with health insurance, a decrease in the percentage of kids covered under private plans bears scant practical consequence. In order to decrease the likelihood that Pennsylvania children will forego available private coverage in favor of public coverage, the Rendell administration has stipulated that, with few exceptions, children must be without medical insurance for six months before applying for SCHIP. This provision was put in place for just that - so that coverage otherwise available would not be dropped, said Melissa Fox, deputy press secretary at the Pennsylvania Insurance Department. The center-right Heritage Foundation, a D.C.-based think tank, posits that depriving parents of the responsibility to secure health coverage for their children will complicate rather than simplify their role as providers for them. In many cases, write Heritage researchers Connie Marshner and Nina Owcharenko, SCHIP gives children health coverage totally separate from their parents' health coverage. In practice, that translates to different office locations, different office hours, different doctors, different paperwork - all of which make life more difficult, especially for lower-income families who are likely to have scheduling and transportation problems. The goal should be to help unite families' coverage under one private plan, not spread their coverage throughout a hodgepodge that increases dependency on the government. Marshner and Owcharenko suggested some alternative steps the government could take, including removing taxes on non-employer based health insurance and lifting burdensome state insurance regulations. Owcharenko said that a broadening of SCHIP signals a piecemeal effort toward universal public health insurance. Public officials, she told The Bulletin, should avoid such a course I think moving toward public coverage is probably the wrong direction to go down, she said. The manner of funding an expansion of SCHIP has also spurred some dispute. The Senate plan calls for a $0.61 per pack increase in the federal tobacco tax. Bush's Health and Human Services Secretary Michael Leavitt has opined that there is little sense in increasing a tax that tends to burden low-income Americans more heavily than those in higher income brackets. 
Press Contact
 