Casey Requests Federal Disaster Assistance for Allegheny County and Surrounding Areas  August 22, 2007 WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Senator Bob Casey (D-PA) today sent letters to President George W. Bush and David Paulison, Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency requesting that President Bush extend federal disaster assistance to Allegheny County and surrounding areas after severe flooding caused extensive property damage.  I write to urge you to employ all appropriate discretionary authority to make federal assistance available to these communities, Casey wrote.  The severe flooding hit the area during the week of August 6th, and caused damage to more than 1,000 homes and businesses. During one event, more than 2.5 inches of rain fell in approximately two hours. Senator Caseys letter responds to recent reports that FEMA relief would not be forthcoming because the Allegheny County flooding did not meet all of the FEMA criteria to receive relief. Senator Casey is calling on FEMA and the President to use their discretionary authority to provide much needed relief to those hard hit by flooding. On August 15, Senator Casey sent a letter to the Small Business Administration asking for them to quickly approve disaster relief for residents of Allegheny County and the surrounding area. If the disaster relief is approved, homeowners would be eligible for loans up to $200,000 to repair or replace their home. Homeowners and renters would also be eligible for up to $40,000 in loans to cover losses to personal property. Businesses and non-profits can receive up to $1.5 million in loans to cover buildings, equipment and inventory. Full text of the letter is included: The Honorable George W. Bush President of the United States The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue Washington, D.C.  Dear Mr. President:  During the week of August 6, heavy rains led to severe flooding in Allegheny County and surrounding communities. Consistent with all applicable laws, rules, and regulations, I write to urge you to employ all appropriate discretionary authority to make federal assistance available to these communities.  According to the latest press reports, over 1,000 homes and scores of businesses were repeatedly damaged throughout the region during the course of the week. This number reflects the most accurate information available to date. During one event, more than 2.5 inches of rain fell in approximately two hours. Some of these families and businesses have experienced repeated flooding and their situation is extreme.  It is my understanding that many of these properties were badly damaged in September 2004 when Hurricane Ivan caused severe flooding. I am advised that you visited Millvale Borough in Allegheny County following Ivan and therefore have a first-hand understanding of the devastation that flooding has had on this and other western Pennsylvania communities.  While I understand and appreciate the role that federal disaster criteria play in the disaster declaration process, the unique situation facing these communities as a result of repeated flooding suffered in such a short time span warrants federal attention. Thank you in advance for your prompt consideration of this request. Sincerely,  Robert P. Casey, Jr. United States Senator 
Press Contact
                        Kendra Barkoff (202) 228-6367
                     