Casey Urges Bush to Restore Stability in Pakistan January 22, 2008  WASHINGTON, DC  U.S. Senator Bob Casey (D-PA) today joined his Senate colleagues in sending a bipartisan letter to President Bush urging the President to act quickly to promote steps toward democracy, reconciliation and stability in Pakistan.  The letter was signed by Senators Russ Feingold (D-WI), Edward Kennedy (D-MA), Ben Cardin (D-MD), Robert Menendez (D-NJ), Gordon Smith (R-OR), Robert Byrd (D-WV) and Charles Schumer (D-NY). While this administration has spent billions propping up President Musharraf as an indispensable ally, U.S. support has not reached the Pakistani people, said Senator Casey. In light of the recent violence and turmoil in Pakistan, it is critical for the United States to find common cause with the Pakistani people and insist on effective steps toward democracy, reconciliation and stability in this key ally. Specifically, the Senators urged President Bush to: 1)  Permit an immediate, thorough and credible investigation, to be conducted under the aegis of the United Nations, into the murder of Benazir Bhutto. 2) Reinstate the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, as well as other dismissed Justices, and ensure an independent judiciary. 3) Release those arrested during the period of emergency rule. 4) Reconstitute the Election Commission of Pakistan, with the consensus of all major political parties In December, shortly after Bhuttos assassination, Senator Casey expressed the importance of Musharraf immediately moving forward to restore democratic progress in Pakistan.  The most important thing Musharraf must accomplish, in addition to maintaining order, is to do everything possible to redouble efforts to ensure the integrity of the election, said Casey in an interview. Senator Casey has also voiced his strong concerns over the effectiveness and continued reliability of existing safeguards on Pakistans nuclear arsenal against theft or seizure by terrorist groups.  In response to a question Senator Casey posed at a Foreign Relations hearing in December, Assistant Secretary of State Richard Boucher assured him that the U.S. government is fairly confident in the integrity of Pakistans protective measures.   The full text of the letter is below: Dear Mr. President: The tragic assassination of Pakistan Peoples Party Chairman Benazir Bhutto and the ensuing crisis require us to act quickly in our common interest with the people of Pakistan to promote legitimate democracy, reconciliation and stability in that country.   In the near term, a vital step in bringing about reconciliation would be an independent investigation to determine responsibility for Ms. Bhuttos vicious murder, to be followed by measures holding those responsible accountable in a court of law.  We feel that an international investigation that receives the full cooperation of Pakistani authorities is the best way to achieve this goal, and to win the support of the people of Pakistan.  Accordingly, we urge you to call for such an investigation and to press President Musharraf and his government for its full support and cooperation. You have often spoken of how a stable, democratic Pakistan is in Americas national security interests and a strong ally in combating terrorism.  In that regard, the release of all judges, lawyers, and others who protested the period of emergency rule and remain incarcerated or under house arrest is critical.  We ask that you urge President Musharraf to undertake this step and to undo the other restrictions on personal and press freedom and the rule of law that were imposed during emergency rule. Fair and free elections are a necessary step to Pakistans long-term stability and the countrys future progress.  For that reason, we believe there needs to be a consensus of all the major parties on the neutrality of a reconstituted Elections Commission. Similarly, since the judiciary in Pakistan is engaged at every level in the electoral process -- with district judges serving as overseers at the local level of the tallying process and as members of election complaint tribunals and of the national Elections Commission -- the restoration of an independent judiciary is truly essential. Therefore, in order to promote stability in Pakistan, establish a genuine and viable democracy, and contribute to our countries mutual interest in combating extremism and terrorism, we urge you to call on the Government of Pakistan to: 1)  Permit an immediate, thorough, and credible, investigation, to be conducted under the aegis of the United Nations, into the murder of Benazir Bhutto.  The UN resolution establishing the investigation should ensure that those found to be responsible are tried through the Pakistani judicial process, preferably involving a reconstituted and independent Pakistani judiciary.  The UN resolution should explicitly direct the Pakistani security forces to provide all possible cooperation to the investigation, and should also provide a timeline for findings to be reported to the Security Council. 2) Reinstate the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, as well as other dismissed Justices, and ensure an independent judiciary.  Although President Musharraf formally ended emergency rule on December 15, 2007, only those judges who swore allegiance to President Musharraf were reinstated.  An independent judiciary is essential in order to ensure impartial prosecutions that result from any investigation into Bhuttos murder, manage elections, and arbitrate election-related disputes. 3) Release those arrested during the period of emergency rule.  As an indication of his commitment to legitimate reconciliation, President Musharraf must release all individuals who exercised their individual liberties during the period of emergency rule and continue to remain imprisoned or under house arrest. 4) Reconstitute the Election Commission of Pakistan, with the consensus of all major political parties.  As an autonomous, constitutional entity entrusted with conducting national elections, guarding against corrupt practices, and appointing election tribunals to deal with disputes, Pakistans Election Commission must be reconstituted with balanced and independent officials.  The current Commission is chaired by a Musharraf appointee, with two positions remaining vacant. Without taking such needed steps, the risks to stability in Pakistan and the larger region and to the United States will remain significant.  Providing support to undemocratic practices in Pakistan runs counter to Americas interest in reducing the threat posed by al Qaeda and its allies, building and sustaining strong democratic institutions in Pakistan, and ensuring peace in South Asia.  We must act quickly and decisively to help ensure that Pakistan moves in the right direction and we look forward to working with you and your Administration to achieve these goals.    Respectfully,  Senator Bob Casey (D-PA) Senator Russ Feingold (D-WI) Senator Gordon Smith (R-OR) Senator Edward Kennedy (D-MA) Senator Robert Byrd (D-WV) Senator Chuck Schumer (D-NY) Senator Robert Menendez (D-NJ) Senator Ben Cardin (D-MD)   ### 
Press Contact
                        Kendra Barkoff - (202) 228-6367
                     