Casey Announces Senate Appropriations Committee Approves $500,000 For Southeastern Pennsylvania Higher Education Consortium  June 22, 2007  WASHINGTON, DC  United States Senator Bob Casey (D-PA) today announced that the Senate Appropriations Committee approved $500,000 under the FY08 Labor, Health and Human Services and Education Appropriations Bill for the Southeastern Pennsylvania Higher Education Consortium (SEPCHE). This project will fund math and science programs and is one of Senator Caseys top priorities in this years spending bill. While this is just the first step in the process, I applaud the Appropriations Committee for approving the request to fund this critical project, said Casey. This money will help students learn the critical math and science skills to better prepare them for the future. I will continue to fight to help ensure students are given the resources they need to succeed in life. SEPCHE is a non-profit consortium of eight colleges and universities in the greater Philadelphia area. The colleges and universities include: Arcadia University, Cabrini College, Chestnut Hill College, Gwynedd-Mercy College, Holy Family University, Immaculata University, Neumann College, and Rosemont College. The consortium was founded in 1993 to enhance the quality of educational programs through collaboration.  Funding will be used to support the SEPCHE Institute of Mathematics and Science, including a summer program for K-12 math/science teachers and development of instructional materials for dissemination to K-12 classrooms. Funding will also be utilized for ongoing professional development of the Institutes instructors.  The Appropriations Bill for Labor, Health and Human Services and Education passed the Appropriations Committee and will head to the floor for a full vote before the Senate. The bill will then proceed to the House-Senate Conference Committee, before final passage in both chambers, and it is expected to be signed into law later this fall.  ### 
Press Contact
                        Kendra Barkoff (202) 228-6367
                     