Casey Plan Would Move Ag Inspectors Back to USDA from DHS  October 23, 2007  WASHINGTON, DC- During Wednesdays scheduled mark-up of the 2007 Farm Bill, the Senate Agriculture Committee will consider an amendment by U.S. Senator Bob Casey (D-PA) that will move the agricultural inspectors from the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) back to the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA). The Homeland Security Act of 2002 transferred the successful and effective agricultural inspection program from the USDA to DHS, said Casey. After four years of continuing problems at DHS, it is evident that the agricultural inspections need to be returned to the USDA to ensure our agricultural goods are safe from foreign diseases and pests. Since the Homeland Security Act of 2002 was implemented, DHS has been charged with safeguarding U.S. agriculture at ports of entry from foreign invasive pests and diseases that cost the U.S. an estimated $138 billion annually. In a 2006 GAO report, many agriculture specialists reported a decrease in both the number of inspections and specialists to carry out the inspections.  In addition to repealing the transfer of import and entry inspection functions from the USDA to DHS, this amendment establishes the USDA international agricultural inspection program, provides a career track program for agricultural inspectors and develops standard operating procedures for inspections. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) is a cosponsor of this amendment. Senator Casey worked closely with Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) to develop the language for this amendment.  This amendment has the support of the following groups and organizations: American Farm Bureau American Mushroom Institute American Nursery  Landscape Association California Agricultural Issues Forum California Association of Nurseries and Garden Centers California Association of Winegrape Growers California Citrus Mutual California Grape and Tree Fruit League California Table Grape Commission Cherry Marketing Institute Environmental Defense Florida Citrus Mutual Florida Fruit  Vegetable Association Florida Tomato Exchange Georgia Fruit  Vegetable Grower Association Grower-Shipper Association of Central California National Association of State Departments of Agriculture National Council of Farmer Cooperatives National Grape Cooperative Association National Potato Council National Watermelon Association Northwest Horticultural Council Produce Marketing Association Society of American Florists Sunkist Growers Texas Citrus Mutual Texas Produce Association U.S. Apple Association United Fresh Produce Association Welchs Western Growers WineAmerica  ### 
Press Contact
                        Kendra Barkoff (202) 228-6367
                     