Casey, compatriots continue crusade  January 24, 2007  Pennsylvanians should be proud of their freshman senator, Bob Casey who, last week in one of his first speeches on the U.S. Senate floor took aim at a suspect patronage practice perpetuated by his Republican predecessor. Up until a year ago when the Jack Abramoff lobbyist scandal heated up, former U.S. Sen. Rick Santorum chaired bi-weekly meetings of the Senate Republican Conference with lobbyists for special interest groups. They ended with the distribution of lists indicating members of Congress in search of work and the lobbying jobs that were available.  The implication was that if trade associations and companies did not hire Republicans as their top lobbyists, they should not expect access to Republican legislators who were in the majority on Capitol Hill for 12 years before Democrats took over this month. Santorum was implementing a scheme known as the K Street Project devised by one of his heroes, former House Majority Leader Tom DeLay, R-Texas, more than a decade ago with the help of notorious Republican strategist Grover Norquist.  On their Web site, the architects of the K Street Project -- named for the street in Washington, D.C. where many lobbyists are headquartered -- describe it as non-partisan research of political affiliation, employment background and political donations of members in Washington, D.C.s premier lobbying firms, trade associations and industries.  Clearly, their mission is not to provide a public service. The job listings, once distributed at Santorums meetings, are now just posted on the K Street Projects Web site so as to remove the obvious undue influence of lawmakers.  Its no wonder they are distancing themselves from the set-up.  Lobbying firms with lots of money and jobs for former government officials can greatly influence federal legislation. It is no secret that lobbyists can buy policies favoring their causes through donations to political campaigns -- and courting politicians with other perks.  Such practices have spawned the likes of Jack Abramoff, a Republican political activist and lobbyist, who pleaded guilty in January 2006 to three criminal felony counts in federal court for defrauding American Indian tribes and corruption of public officials and to two criminal felony counts for fraudulent casino dealings in Florida. He was sentenced to five years and 10 months in prison.  Abramoffs illicit activities inspired the U.S. Department of Justice to formulate an inter-governmental task force to investigate his congressional allies whose shady dealings with him have surely had an impact on federal legislation.  Last Friday former U.S. Rep. Bob Ney, R-Ohio, who once chaired the House administration committee, was sentenced to two-and-a-half years in prison for accepting golf and gambling trips, sporting event tickets, free meals and campaign donations arranged by Abramoff and his associates.  Its only a matter of time before more K Street Project participants fall. It should be interesting to see just how far up the political food chain the corruption unveiled by the Justice Department goes, considering Abramoff was a member of George W. Bushs 2001 transition advisory team.  The projects mastermind, Tom DeLay, has already been indicted for conspiring to violate Texas campaign finance law.  In an effort to end the K Street Project and the potential corruption that can come with such institutions, Casey has proposed an amendment that would penalize members of Congress who influence hiring decisions made by a private entity. They could face a fine and/or up to 15 years in prison if Caseys amendment is enacted.  Caseys proposal is in keeping with the new movement on Capitol Hill which Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi has dubbed the toughest ethics reform in history.  The same day she was sworn in, the House passed an ethics bill 430-1 barring members from accepting gifts and travel perks from lobbyists, prohibiting the use of corporate jets and requiring greater disclosure of special projects or earmarks hidden in larger bills.  And, on Jan. 12, the U.S. Senate voted 87-0 to strip away the pensions of members of Congress convicted of white collar crimes such as bribery, perjury and fraud.  It could result in benefit losses of more than $100,000 a year to people like U.S. Rep. Randy Duke Cunningham, R-Calif., who resigned in November 2005 after pleading guilty to federal charges of conspiracy to commit bribery in exchange for government contracts, mail fraud, wire fraud and tax evasion.  Cunningham, of course, has dodged that bullet.  Hopefully Bob Casey and his new compatriots on Capitol Hill will continue their crusade to ensure that other ethically-challenged politicians no longer exploit American taxpayers.  
Press Contact
 