Casey touts anti-predatory lending bill; Senator meets with Philly homeowners concerning dubious home-loan tactics July 24, 2007  U.S. Sen. Bob Casey Jr. listened intently Monday as a homeowner said he was in danger of losing his house because, as a victim of predatory lending, he could no longer afford to make payments on his home loan. It was an unfortunate story Casey has heard before. The senator said mortgage brokers and loan originators are rewarded to ''give mortgages to people who can't afford it.'' ''We've got to crack down harder on these players,'' said Casey, D-Pa., who was at a community center in North Philadelphia to meet with neighborhood leaders and beleaguered homeowners. Casey was in town to tout a bill that would regulate mortgage brokers and loan originators, in part by making it a fiduciary duty to treat consumers fairly. The stepped up oversight would include outlining standards for assessing a borrower's ability to repay and holding lenders responsible for overseeing associated brokers and appraisers. Called the Borrower's Protection Act of 2007, the bill was introduced in May and co-sponsored by Casey, Sen. Charles Schumer, D-N.Y., and Sen. Sherrod Brown, D-Ohio. Last week, Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke told lawmakers that the central bank is planning to propose new consumer protection rules to fight abuses in mortgage lending. Foreclosures have been on the rise in Philadelphia and elsewhere, community leaders said, as the subprime mortgage debacle continues to unfold nationally. Subprime mortgage loans are higher-interest-rate loans sold to people with spotty credit records, and delinquencies have been rising. Many of these loans, which became more popular as the housing market peaked over the last two years, were sold with declining underwriting standards and predatory lending practices. Predatory lending includes extending expensive loans whose terms make it tough for the homeowner to pay it off, said Ira Goldstein, director of policy and information services at The Reinvestment Fund, a Philadelphia community development group serving the mid-Atlantic region. Another sign of predatory lending is that the loan is marketed to someone who is not looking for one but is eventually persuaded, he said. The loans may exceed the value of the home and are typically targeted at unsophisticated consumers. Predatory lending is the path to foreclosure, Goldstein said. One in 33 home loans in Philadelphia showed signs of predatory lending tactics, he said. The figures goes up to one in seven for those who have refinanced their mortgages several times. Predatory lending in Philadelphia was more common in moderate-income, ethnic neighborhoods where the home was the owner's only asset, according to a study the group released in April. The study, based on the mortgage and sale histories of 15,500 properties from 2000 to 2003, also said foreclosures were more likely in communities with modest-income households and subprime mortgages. Ceasar Maddox, a part-time waiter from the Germantown section of Philadelphia, told Casey he is in danger of losing the three-bedroom house he inherited seven years ago from his godmother. He has refinanced five loans on the house in three years. He's on his sixth loan, which came from a phone call solicitation. The transaction was conducted by mail, phone and fax, Maddox said. He said he wasn't told that the loan had a two-year adjustable rate, which is set to change this year. A Morning Call investigation in July showed that the poor performance of subprime lending is affecting the Lehigh Valley. Federal banking statistics showed that Lehigh and Northampton counties ranked first and second among Pennsylvania's 67 counties for the growth in subprime loans from 2004-2005  when subprime lending peaked -- and that delinquencies locally were on the rise. Furthermore, one nationwide study predicted that the Lehigh Valley area would rank among the top 9 percent of metropolitan areas across the United States for subprime foreclosures. In addition, the story showed that federal and state legislators were aware of problems with subprime lending in Pennsylvania since at least 2001, but that legislation to respond to the growing problem had stalled. 
Press Contact
 