Senators Specter And Casey Announce Committee Approval Of Western Pennsylvania Health, Education And Labor Projects  June 25, 2007  Washington, D.C. - U.S. Senators Arlen Specter, Ranking Member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, and Bob Casey, the Junior Senator from Pennsylvania, announced today the U.S. Senate Appropriations Committee has approved funding for several western Pennsylvania health care, education and labor projects. The projects are contained in the Fiscal Year 2008 Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations bill. I am pleased my colleagues have approved this important funding for western Pennsylvania, Senator Specter said. Health and education are our nations greatest capital assets, and these projects are vital to ensuring quality health care and education for the areas residents. This money is great news for western Pennsylvania and I am thrilled that members of the committee approved this funding, said Senator Casey. I will continue working with Senator Specter to ensure residents of the area have access to quality health care and education. The bill will now await action on the Senate floor and must be approved by the House of Representatives and the President of the United States before funding is final. Western Pennsylvania projects in the bill include: $500,000 for Mentoring Partnership of Southwestern Pennsylvania in Allegheny County for recruitment, placement, and oversight of school-based mentoring with the goal of decreasing truancy rates, increasing the rates at which students graduate to the next grade, decreasing student disciplinary referrals, and decreasing students' involvement with the juvenile justice system.  $200,000 for Allegheny General Hospital in Allegheny County for purchase of a multi-slice CT scanner.  $200,000 for University of Pittsburgh Cancer Institute in Allegheny County to acquire instrumentation to build and maintain a comprehensive proteomics facility dedicated to support basic and clinically focused research.  $200,000 for University of Pittsburgh Medical Center in Allegheny County to develop a program to reduce the health disparities gap for chronic diseases, including diabetes, asthma, maternal child health, cancer, and cardiovascular.  $150,000 for Carnegie Mellon University in Allegheny County to renovate laboratory facilities for neuroscience research.  $150,000 for Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh in Allegheny County for construction of a new Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh dedicated to pediatric health care and research.  $100,000 for Allegheny Singer Research Institute in Allegheny County for purchase of equipment for performing biomedical research.  $100,000 for Children's Institute in Allegheny County for creation of an autism center and a pediatric unit.  $100,000 for Duquesne University of the Holy Spirit in Allegheny County to enhance the university's current supercomputing facility and strengthen its research and educational programs in the area of computational sciences.  $100,000 for Institute for Research, Education and Training in Addictions in Allegheny County for substance abuse treatment programs.  $100,000 for Jefferson Regional Medical Center in Allegheny County for technology equipment to implement an electronic medical record system.  $100,000 for Magee-Womens Research Institute and Foundation in Allegheny County to purchase equipment to supplement traditional mammography, as well as information technology, including wireless systems.  $100,000 for Ohio Valley General Hospital in Allegheny County to purchase equipment for a health information technology initiative.  $100,000 for Pennsylvania Women Work! in Allegheny County to implement job training and counseling programs for women.  $100,000 for Pittsburgh Regional Health Initiative in Allegheny County for the Reducing Hospital-Acquired Infections Demonstration Project, which aims to develop the systems and processes of care necessary for an infection-free hospital.  $100,000 for Robert Morris University in Allegheny County to develop a project that integrates the use of Electronic Health Records into the education of healthcare professionals locally and across the nation.  $100,000 for University of Pittsburgh Medical Center in Allegheny County for tests to advance potential submission of radiowave technology for FDA approval to initiate a clinical trial.  $100,000 for Western Pennsylvania Hospital in Allegheny County for establishment of the West Penn Burn Center.  $100,000 for Armstrong County Memorial Hospital in Armstrong County to implement a computerized pharmaceutical system.  $100,000 for Heritage Valley Health System in Beaver County for renovation and expansion of the emergency departments at the Beaver and Sewickley sites.  $100,000 for Clarion Hospital Healthcare System in Clarion County to create electronic medical records containing patient demographic and insurance information, current medications and health care conditions.  $100,000 for Greene County to implement a telemedicine initiative to be housed at Waynesburg College.  $100,000 for Homer-Center School District in Indiana County for science curriculum development and acquisition of technology.  $100,000 for Indiana Regional Medical Center in Indiana County to expand disease management services at the Institute for Healthy Living Wellness Center.  $100,000 for Indiana University of Pennsylvania in Indiana County to acquire scanning equipment to digitalize coal mine maps to prevent and manage mine-related emergencies.  $100,000 for Jameson Hospital in Lawrence County to renovate the emergency room and operating suites.  $100,000 for California University of Pennsylvania in Washington County to develop a Math and Science Institute for research and development of math and science methods of instruction, including the use of technology.  $100,000 for Monongahela Valley Hospital of Washington County to purchase a CT scanner and acquire a picture archiving and communication system (PACS).  $100,000 for Redevelopment Authority of the County of Washington in Washington County for expansion of Washington Hospital, including renovating the emergency department, surgical care unit and adding new operating rooms.  $100,000 for Washington  Jefferson College in Washington County to expand and improve foreign language programs.  $100,000 for Seton Hill University in Westmoreland County to develop substance abuse and prevention programs.  # # #  
Press Contact
                        Kendra Barkoff (202) 228-6367
                     