Senators Specter And Casey Announce Committee Approval Of Pennsylvania Projects June 25, 2007  Washington, D.C.- U.S. Senators Arlen Specter, a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, and Bob Casey, the Junior Senator from Pennsylvania, announced today that the U.S. Senate Appropriations Committee has approved federal funding for several Pennsylvania projects as contained in the Interior, Environment and Related Agencies Fiscal Year 2008 Appropriations bill. I am pleased my colleagues have recognized the importance of these Pennsylvania projects, Senator Specter said. This funding will help Pennsylvania to improve and maintain important infrastructure programs, as well as enrich future generations by preserving Pennsylvanias rich industrial, cultural and historical heritage.  This money is great news for Pennsylvania and I am thrilled that members of the committee approved funding for these projects throughout the Commonwealth, said Senator Casey. I will continue working with Senator Specter to build critical infrastructure and to preserve important hallowed historical sites. The bill will now await action on the Senate floor and must be approved by the House of Representatives and the President of the United States before funding is final. Funding has been approved for the following Pennsylvania projects: $5 million for Flight 93 National Memorial in Somerset County for land acquisition to build the memorial. $2 million for the Franklin Institute in Philadelphia County to rehabilitate the physical structure of the Benjamin Franklin National Memorial and the Franklin Statue. $800,000 for Three Rivers Wet Weather Demonstration Program in Allegheny County to fix municipal sewers, protect the regions streams and augment the investment of local governments in compliance with the Clean Water Act. $500,000 for Penn State through the Small Public Water System Technology Assistance Centers Program in Dauphin County to foster technology evaluation and training for operators, trainers, engineers, owners and managers of small water systems.  $200,000 for Franklin Township in Adams County to make storm water improvements and to design and construct a sewer system to alleviate sewage disposal concerns. $200,000 for Borough of Cochranton in Crawford County for the installation of a public sewage treatment plant and infrastructure in the borough. $200,000 for Somerset County for the construction of a waterline connection between the Reading Mines and the Stoystown water systems to address the increased demand for water in the county due to the construction of the Flight 93 National Memorial. $125,000 for Polish American Cultural Center in Philadelphia County for external and internal maintenance and repair for the historic building. $100,000 for City of Scranton in Lackawanna County for the repair, upgrade, and replacement of waste water and storm water capital infrastructure elements in the city. $100,000 for Borough of Bellefonte in Centre County for water infrastructure improvements. # # # 
Press Contact
                        Kendra Barkoff (202) 228-6367
                     