Senators Specter and Casey Announce Senate Approval of Central Pennsylvania Health, Education and Labor Projects  October 25, 2007  Washington, D.C. - U.S. Senators Arlen Specter, Ranking Member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, and Bob Casey, the Junior Senator from Pennsylvania, announced today the U.S. Senate has approved funding for several central Pennsylvania health care, education and labor projects. The projects are contained in the Fiscal Year 2008 Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations bill. I am pleased my colleagues have approved this important funding for central Pennsylvania, Senator Specter said. Health and education are our nations greatest capital assets, and these projects are vital to ensuring quality health care and education for the areas residents. This money is great news for central Pennsylvania and I am thrilled that members of the Senate approved this funding, said Senator Casey. I will continue working with Senator Specter to ensure residents of the area have access to quality health care and education. The bill must be approved by the full Congress and the President of the United States before funding is final. Central Pennsylvania projects in the bill include: $100,000 for Holy Spirit Hospital in Cumberland County for the purchase of automated medication dispensing cabinets which feature individual line-item security storage, pharmacy profiling, medication tracking, report generation and integration to the medication/documentation charts.  $100,000 for Messiah College in Cumberland County to upgrade the College's technology infrastructure through the creation of a network with wireless capability.  $100,000 for Shippensburg University in Cumberland County for expansion of the University's existing hard wire, wireless, and fiber optic networks to academic buildings.  $100,000 for Pennsylvania Coalition Against Domestic Violence in Dauphin County for a Training, Education and Prevention Institute, which would create educational and prevention programs to address the high incidence of domestic violence homicides in Pennsylvania.  $100,000 for Pinnacle Health System in Dauphin County for expansion of the Emergency Department and to increase bed capacity.  $100,000 for Youth Advocate Programs, Inc. in Dauphin County for community-based, non-residential programming as an alternative school service for juvenile offenders.  $100,000 for Ephrata Community Hospital in Lancaster County for the purchase of an Intensity Modulated Radiation Therapy linear accelerator with Image Guided capability for radiation therapy treatments.  $100,000 for Pennsylvania Breast Cancer Coalition in Lancaster County for breast cancer education.  $100,000 for Susquehanna University in Snyder County to outfit the science labs with new and updated equipment and instrumentation.  $100,000 for Memorial Hospital in York County for electronic medical record and patient tracking equipment, software, training and implementation for the emergency department.  $100,000 for WellSpan Health in York County for expansion of health care outreach to the underinsured with the addition of a prevention specialist and financial case workers at Healthy York Network partner organizations.  $100,000 for York College of Pennsylvania in York County to upgrade computers and other laboratory equipment in the York College Engineering Innovation Center.  # # #  
Press Contact
                        Kendra Barkoff (202) 228-6367
                     