Senators Specter and Casey Announce Senate Approval of Northeastern Pennsylvania Health, Education and Labor Projects  October 25, 2007  Washington, D.C. - U.S. Senators Arlen Specter, Ranking Member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, and Bob Casey, the Junior Senator from Pennsylvania, announced today the U.S. Senate has approved funding for several northeastern Pennsylvania health care, education and labor projects. The projects are contained in the Fiscal Year 2008 Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations bill. I am pleased my colleagues have approved this important funding for northeastern Pennsylvania, Senator Specter said. Health and education are our nations greatest capital assets, and these projects are vital to ensuring quality health care and education for the areas residents. This money is great news for northeastern Pennsylvania and I am thrilled that members of the Senate approved this funding, said Senator Casey. I will continue working with Senator Specter to ensure residents of the area have access to quality health care and education. The bill must be approved by the full Congress and the President of the United States before funding is final. Northeastern Pennsylvania projects in the bill include: $1,000,000 for a Medical Education Development Consortium in Lackawanna County for construction of an independent, regional, community-based medical school serving 400 students.  $200,000 for Geisinger Health System in Montour County for construction and establishment of a Center for Advanced Medicine focused on increasing access and availability of advanced health care needs of rural Pennsylvanians.  $100,000 for the Office of District Attorney in Clinton County for substance abuse prevention programs in the middle and high schools and to promote community awareness of the problem of youth alcohol and drug use.  $100,000 for Lock Haven University in Clinton County to provide professional development partnerships and services, including professional development training and higher education program development, to support at-risk students.  $100,000 for Bloomsburg Hospital in Columbia County to establish a Cardiology Center and Catheterization Lab.  $100,000 for Healthy Northeast Pennsylvania Initiative in Lackawanna County for health promotion and disease prevention programs.  $100,000 for Keystone College in Lackawanna County for laboratory equipment and technology upgrades for the Division of Natural Science and Mathematics.  $100,000 for Lackawanna College in Lackawanna County for laboratory equipment and technology upgrades for the new Administration and Science Annex.  $100,000 for Marian Community Hospital in Lackawanna County for the purchase and installation of a picture archive and communication system that will incorporate all hospital diagnostic testing images.  $100,000 for Mercy Health Partners in Lackawanna County for integration of evidence-based knowledge for both nursing and interdisciplinary care teams into Mercys clinical information systems.  $100,000 for Mid Valley Hospital in Lackawanna County for purchase of an automated medication dispensing system, and upgrades to the facility, including renovation to a patient floor.  $100,000 for Moses Taylor Hospital in Lackawanna County for technology and equipment related to a digital hospital network structure.  $100,000 for Northeast Regional Cancer Institute in Lackawanna County for epidemiological cancer screening evaluation of local, state and national data within a seven county area of Northeast Pennsylvania.  $100,000 for Northeastern Pennsylvania Technology Institute in Lackawanna County to develop a communication system to connect the eighteen regional hospitals with state and federal medical experts during incident response and recovery.  $100,000 for University of Scranton in Lackawanna County for purchase of equipment to train students in the nursing and healthcare professions on the best practices for use of medical technology.  $100,000 for College Misericordia in Luzerne County for infrastructure improvements at the Assistive Technology Research Institute, which tests technology manufactured designed to improve the quality of life and productivity of the disabled and elderly.  $100,000 for Hazleton General Hospital in Luzerne County for purchase of a Bar Code Point of Care Bedside Verification System for all inpatient nursing floors to reduce the potential risks of adverse drug events.  $100,000 for King's College in Luzerne County for curriculum and professional development for its Center for Community Engagement and Learning.  $100,000 for Supporting Autism Families Everywhere in Luzerne County to establish a community outreach program to parents, educators, pediatricians, and young adults with autism.  $100,000 for Wyoming Valley Health Care System-Hospital in Luzerne County for purchase of an Electronic Medical Records system.  $100,000 for Susquehanna Health System in Lycoming County for purchase of a cancer radiation treatment machine for the Susquehanna Cancer Center.  $100,000 for Young Womens Christian Association (YWCA) in Lycoming County for abused and neglected children's Court Appointed Special Advocate program.  $100,000 for Good Samaritan Regional Medical Center in Schuylkill County for providing health care to underinsured residents of Schuylkill County.  $100,000 for Saint Luke's Miners Memorial Hospital in Schuylkill County for purchase of a digital mammography unit and a work station to read images.  $100,000 for Barnes-Kasson County Hospital in Susquehanna County to upgrade the emergency room and infrastructure.  $100,000 for Soldiers  Sailors Memorial Hospital in Tioga County for expansion of the emergency department and triage area, as well as to expand the waiting room for patients and families.  $100,000 for Bucknell University in Union County for laboratory equipment to support its Science Equipment Initiative to expand research and training programs in the areas of chemistry, engineering, geology and physics.  $100,000 for Wayne Memorial Hospital in Wayne County for an Emergency Generator, Central Supply HVAC System, and sterilization system.  # # #  
Press Contact
                        Kendra Barkoff (202) 228-6367
                     