Casey on Employee Free Choice Act and Immigration Votes  June 26, 2007 WASHINGTON, DC- After voting today in favor of procedural votes to move forward on both the Employee Free Choice Act and on immigration U.S. Senator Bob Casey (D-PA) released the following statement:I am pleased that the Senate has voted to resume debate on the immigration bill. Washington has ignored the problem of illegal immigration for the past seven years and the debate has already been derailed once this year. At the same time, I am disappointed that a minority in the Senate is preventing debate on the Employee Free Choice Act that will offer protections against coercive tactics by employers trying to prevent workers from organizing. This legislation is an important part of helping to increase the security of American workers who are being left behind and not benefiting from their increased productivity. I hope that we can bring this bill to the floor again where it would pass on an up-or-down vote. ### WASHINGTON, DC- After voting today in favor of procedural votes to move forward on both the Employee Free Choice Act and on immigration U.S. Senator Bob Casey (D-PA) released the following statement: I am pleased that the Senate has voted to resume debate on the immigration bill. Washington has ignored the problem of illegal immigration for the past seven years and the debate has already been derailed once this year.  At the same time, I am disappointed that a minority in the Senate is preventing debate on the Employee Free Choice Act that will offer protections against coercive tactics by employers trying to prevent workers from organizing. This legislation is an important part of helping to increase the security of American workers who are being left behind and not benefiting from their increased productivity. I hope that we can bring this bill to the floor again where it would pass on an up-or-down vote. ###  
Press Contact
                        Larry Smar (202) 228-6367
                     