Casey promotes children's health insurance bill, Proposal aims to fill gap between Medicaid and private coverage. August 28, 2007  U.S. Sen. Bob Casey Jr. came to Bethlehem on Monday to drum up support for a Senate bill that could nearly double the number of Pennsylvania children covered under the State Children's Health Insurance Program. The Senate bill would provide $60 billion to states over the next five years to provide health insurance to children in families who earn too much to qualify for Medicaid and too little to afford private health insurance. President Bush has threatened to veto that bill, as well as a more generous House version that would provide $75 billion over five years, but would also cut subsidies to private Medicare providers. ''If the president vetoes this bill, I would rank it in the top one or two things that he has done that were against the interests of the American people,'' said Casey, a Scranton Democrat who chose the Lehigh Valley Child Care Campus Center on E. Fifth Street to deliver his message. The senator's tour of the day care and early childhood education center included a stop in one classroom of 10 3- and 4-year-olds where he read to them ''Froggy Goes to the Doctor,'' a humorous storybook about an apprehensive young amphibian's visit to his physician. Casey's visit came barely a month before the children's health insurance program's Sept. 30 expiration date. While renewal of the program isn't in doubt, the president has argued that both the House and Senate proposals to reauthorize the program offer steps toward ''socialized'' medicine. ''The program is going beyond the initial intent of helping poor children,'' Bush said in July. ''It's now aiming at encouraging more people to get on government health care. It's a way to encourage people to transfer from the private sector to government health care plans.'' Bush has proposed a more modest $30 billion program over five years -- a $5 billion increase. A Congressional Budget Office report says renewing the program at that level would not cover everyone already enrolled. Currently 6.5 million are covered under this program nationwide, including 160,000 in Pennsylvania. Casey said the Senate bill would extend coverage to another 3.2 million American children, including 130,000 in Pennsylvania. The funding increase relies primarily on a 61-cent per pack increase in the federal cigarette tax, which Casey said also provides minors with a disincentive from becoming smokers. Some Republicans were upset with the House version of the bill -- adopted along party lines earlier this month -- because it called for a cut in Medicare subsidies. The Senate version received enough bipartisan support to get a 68-vote, veto-proof majority. ''I don't think we should have to go through that exercise to overturn a presidential veto on children's health insurance,'' Casey said. Bush ''can't find $7 billion a year to fund this. He says he can't afford that,'' Casey said. ''But he can afford $100 billion in tax cuts for wealthy Americans.'' 
Press Contact
 