Casey Requests Immediate Assistance To Fight Emerald Ash Borer  June 28, 2007  WASHINGTON, DC- U.S. Senator Bob Casey (D-PA) today sent a letter to Secretary of Agriculture Mike Johanns requesting immediate assistance to combat and prevent the spread of the Emerald Ash Borer (EAB). The pest has been responsible for killing millions of ash trees in the U.S. It was found in Cranberry Township, Butler County yesterday.  I ask that your department provide immediate assistance with emergency funding and appropriate technical assistance to Pennsylvania, Casey wrote. In the letter Casey asked Secretary Johanns to take swift and comprehensive steps to prevent the species from spreading throughout the Commonwealth. Casey went on to write, I am extremely concerned about the ramifications EAB could have on Pennsylvanias ash trees and our commercial nursery industry. The Emerald Ash Borer is a bright green beetle that kills trees by burrowing into their bark and destroying the trees ability to bring water from the roots to upper branches. Infected trees usually begin to die within two to three years.   Full text of the letter is included:  Dear Secretary Johanns: I am concerned to hear that Emerald Ash Borer (EAB), the highly destructive invasive beetle from China, has been detected in western Pennsylvania. I request your urgent attention and assistance for this potentially devastating infestation. EAB has already decimated ash trees in Michigan, Indiana, Ohio, and more recently has moved into Illinois and Wisconsin. We must take swift and comprehensive steps to prevent the EAB from spreading throughout the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. I am extremely concerned about the ramifications EAB could have on Pennsylvanias ash trees and our commercial nursery industry. I ask that your department provide immediate assistance with emergency funding and appropriate technical assistance to Pennsylvania. The arrival of EAB is most unwelcome news. The introduction of this invasive pest through wooden shipping pallets from China underscores the importance of full and proper screenings of imports to safeguard our country and American agriculture for invasive pests and diseases.  I remain confident that with your assistance we can work quickly to contain and eradicate the new EAB infestation in Pennsylvania. I look forward to your response and our continued work together. Sincerely, Bob Casey Jr. United States Senator  
Press Contact
                        Kendra Barkoff (202) 228-6367
                     