Casey targets lending fraud; Senator cites federal probe of alleged sham in Erie August 31, 2007  Alison Norris was beyond nervous. She shifted in her seat as she waited for U.S. Sen. Bob Casey's arrival at Erie's St. Martin Center Thursday afternoon. Sitting at a long table, Norris watch-ed television news crews begin to set up their camera tripods. Norris' identity stared back at the audience on a paper nameplate.Norris was prepping herself for something she never dreamed she would be asked to do -- talk publicly about losing her former West Erie home to foreclosure. But Norris said she decided to put her jitters aside. She accepted an invitation to take part in Casey's roundtable discussion of predatory lending and mortgage fraud because, maybe, her words could help someone else avoid the kind of pain she's still feeling. People need to know what we went through, said Norris, 32. Her home purchase is one of nearly 200 that the FBI and other federal agencies are examining as part of criminal investigation into suspected mortgage fraud in Erie. Norris' story and the FBI probe were detailed in a two-part investigative series that appeared in the Erie Times-News on Aug. 12-13. The probe is examining whether Norris and scores of other homebuyers were defrauded when they bought their homes. There are a lot of people out there who dealt with what I did, said Norris, the single mother of a 9-year-old son. It gives me a good feeling to know that people are actually doing something about this, and that it's actually got the attention of the senator. To me that's a really good thing. Casey, a first-term Democrat, came to Erie on Thursday for a discussion on predatory lending and mortgage fraud. St. Martin Center, 1701 Parade St., hosted the event. The social service agency assists first-time and low-income homebuyers. Casey said he chose Erie in part because of the ongoing federal mortgage fraud probe that involves nearly 200 city properties. The Erie Times-News broke the housing-fraud story in May 2006 and has been following the probe since. In addition to Casey and Norris, the discussion group included Dave Pesch, lead housing counseling manager at St. Martin Center; Virginia Grice, executive director of the Erie County Housing Authority; Cheryl Kobel, St. Martin Center's executive director; and DeShandra Chappell, another Erie homeowner whose mortgage is part of the FBI probe. Chappell's story was also part of the recent Times-News series. Casey said predatory lending -- high-interest mortgage loans that come loaded with hidden fees and unseen costs and are often based on faulty appraisals -- have contributed greatly to the tenuous state of the U.S. housing market. Sometimes, Casey said, those loans can turn criminal, and borrowers are often manipulated through aggressive sales tactics. More and more frequently, brokers and lenders are taking advantage of a borrower's lack of understanding of the mortgage process, Casey said. This is a crisis which has really enveloped the whole country, Casey said of predatory lending. Addressing the Erie fraud investigation, Casey told the audience of about 40 people that if federal officials determine someone should be charged in the case, he hopes that they get long prison sentences for what they're doing. It makes you angry. Because this never should have happened in the United States of America, Casey said. We're going to do everything in our power to get this right, and to help those families (who are affected). One possible solution Casey has touted is the Borrower's Protection Bill of 2007. That bill -- which he co-sponsored with Sen. Charles Schumer, D-N.Y., and Sen. Sherrod Brown, D-Ohio -- seeks to mandate that mortgage brokers and loan originators treat consumers fairly. Oversight would include outlining standards for assessing a borrower's ability to repay a loan, as well as holding lenders responsible for overseeing associated brokers and appraisers. Casey said the law would make it more difficult for banks to separate themselves from loan brokers and appraisers who might be involved in fraud. It creates some accountability that is not there now, Casey said. Pesch said St. Martin Center is working with dozens of clients who are caught up in the FBI probe. He urged anyone interested in buying a house to contact the center. The agency offers first-time homebuyer education that can help someone avoid a predatory loan, Pesch said. He said St. Martin Center clients who participate in those education programs have a home loan foreclosure rate of less than 1 percent. The last thing we want as a social service agency is to see one of our consumers potentially wind up homeless, Pesch said. To us, that's unconscionable. Chappell said she is receiving help from the Pennsylvania Attorney General's Office regarding her home purchase. The agency is helping some local residents affected by the FBI probe, by contacting banks to try to get those mortgages recast with more affordable interest rates. I think things are looking better for me, said Chappell, a 28-year-old single mother of three children. I'm optimistic that there's people behind me trying to help me out and that all this is not being swept under a rug. 
Press Contact
 