Casey vows progress  March 31, 2007  ROSTRAVER TOWNSHIP - With an eye toward the past, U.S. Sen. Robert Casey Jr. spoke Friday night about the future for the region and the state.  Casey, keynote speaker at the Mon Valley Progress Council's 42nd annual dinner, said his father always had great confidence in the Mon Valley Progress Council.  When many in Harrisburg were questioned on the Mon/Fayette Expressway, they said 'no, no, no.' But he said 'yes' and we say 'yes' to the future of this project, he said Friday in the Willow Room.  Casey received a standing ovation, but quickly replied, That hand should really go to all of the people in this room tonight.  Casey said his father, former Gov. Robert P. Casey, was his role model as a person as well as an elected official.  The former governor embraced the Mid-Mon Valley from the first day of his new administration, spent in Monessen learning about the region's needs.  He understood southwestern Pennsylvania, Casey said of his father. He didn't have to be educated about the challenges of this area because of his background.  Casey said the Valley literally saved his father's life, noting that the former governor received a heart and liver transplant with organs donated by a Monessen resident.  His roots run very deep, and I'm proud to stand here tonight on his shoulders and on the shoulders of the people in this room, Casey said.  Casey said his father never stopped fighting for the people of Pennsylvania. He recalled that the former governor fought to build roads such as the expressway as well as a highway in Lackawanna County that his hearse passed on the day of his funeral, even though he never got a chance to drive over it during his lifetime.  I really believe his spirit and his inspiration are with us as we walk along the same roads in the future, Casey said. Where does that road lead? The destination of that road is progress.  That road, Casey said, comprises not just highways but jobs for the workforce, health insurance for the 9 million children who lack it and quality care for the elderly.  Casey said he will continue the kinship his father formed with the Mid-Mon Valley.  Casey, a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, noted that 159 Pennsylvanians have lost their lives in Iraq. He quoted the words his father spoke spoke during the first Gulf war, We pray not only for those troops, we pray that we may be worthy of their valor.  Casey said that Supporting the troops means supporting veterans and veteran's health care.  Casey said the former governor drew much inspiration from his father, an anthracite coal miner in eastern Pennsylvania. Casey said that as a youth, his grandfather was kicked by a mine mule, opening a large gash across his face. But the young man picked himself off the ground.  I tell you that story as a metaphor for this region and the whole state and a metaphor for this council, Casey said. This council picked itself off the ground and lifted this region off the ground.  Casey recalled the song lyric, I believe in the sun, even when it is not shining.  That's what this council did \'d0 you were able to see over the horizon, Casey said.  
Press Contact
 