Casey Meets With FERC on Power Corridor October 31, 2007  WASHINGTON, DC-Today, U.S. Senator Bob Casey (D-PA) met with Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Chairman Joseph Kelliher to discuss the concerns of Pennsylvanians on the National Interest Electric Transmission Corridor (NIETC). Senator Casey released the following statement:My meeting with Commissioner Kelliher was a productive one and I appreciate his willingness to discuss an issue of major concern to 52 of Pennsylvanias 67 counties. I reiterated my concern that because the Department of Energys broad designation of three-quarter of Pennsylvania counties as part of a national power corridor, that power companies would routinely appeal to FERC when they disagreed with lawful decisions made by state commissions like the Pennsylvania Utility Commission. I also stressed that in a case where FERC might get involved, that they solicit and really listen to public comments.I will follow up on todays meeting with a list of additional questions and concerns. I look forward to continuing to discuss the issue with Commissioner Kelliher and achieving a result that is in the best interest of Pennsylvania. On October 22, Senator Casey sent Kelliher a letter informing the FERC Chairman that he has a hold on his renomination.Senator Casey has sought a meeting with Energy Secretary Sam Bodman to discuss this issue. Senator Casey voiced his opposition to the draft plan to the Department of Energy during their public comment period. Despite an outpouring of opposition in Pennsylvania, the final plan was unchanged. He is continuing to fight to prevent the NIETC plan from going forward until Pennsylvania is, at a minimum, treated equitably. Earlier this month, Senator Arlen Specter joined with Senator Casey to express their disappointment in the Department of Energys final designation of NIETC in a letter to the Secretary of Energy, Samuel Bodman. During a meeting last week with Assistant Secretary of Energy Kevin Kolevar, Senator Casey expressed his opposition to the designation of 52 of Pennsylvanias 67 counties as part of the NIETC.### 
Press Contact
                        Larry Smar: 202-228-6367
                     