SENS. DOLE, CLINTON SEND LETTER TO SECRETARY OF STATE RICE
 Sens. Elizabeth Dole (R-NC) and Hillary Rodham Clinton (D-NY) sent a letter to Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice urging her and the Bush Administration to submit the Third Additional Protocol to the Geneva Conventions to the Senate. The Third Additional Protocol was approved by member states in December 2005 and provides a means by which Israel's Magen David Adom can join the International Red Cross. Now, members of the International Red Cross and Red Crescent movement will gather in June to approve changes necessary to allow Magen David Adom to join the movement. 
   "Since my days at the American Red Cross, I have worked to bring Magen David Adom into the International Red Cross Movement--as I saw then the intransigence and endless delay that have defined this issue for so many years," said Senator Dole. "I am hopeful that the Senate will approve the Third Protocol before the international conference in June. This act would send a clear message to the international community that the United States is the leader in ending this injustice."  
   "It has been a top priority of mine to rectify the injustice of Magen David Adom's exclusion from the International Red Cross," Senator Clinton said. "Last November, I visited MDA's headquarters in Jerusalem and was briefed about the important humanitarian work that they perform, both in Israel and the world. With this letter, we are urging prompt action to have the United States approve the changes in international agreements that will allow MDA to join the International Red Cross." 
   Other senators to sign the letter include Barbara Boxer (D-CA), Joseph Lieberman (D-CT), Ken Salazar (D-CO), Frank Lautenberg (D-NJ), Bill Nelson (D-FL), Diane Feinstein (D-CA), Russ Feingold (D-WI), Carl Levin (D-MI), Conrad Burns (R-MT), Norm Coleman (R-MN), Chuck Hagel (R-NE), Tom Coburn (R-OK), Rick Santorum (R-PA), Saxby Chambliss (R-GA), John Ensign (R-NV), Sam Brownback (R-KS), and Gordon Smith (R-WA). 
   Text of letter below: 
   The Honorable Condoleezza Rice 
  U.S. Department of State 
  2201 C Street NW 
  Washington, DC 20520 
   Dear Secretary Rice, 
   We would like to express our gratitude for your support to Magen David Adom in Israel's (MDA) attempt to gain admission to the Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement. As you know, a significant barrier was removed in December 2005 when the States party to the Geneva Convention approved the Third Additional Protocol whereby a new and neutral symbol, the "Red Crystal" was created that can stand side-by-side with the "Red Cross" and "Red Crescent". 
   While this was a key step, MDA is not yet a member of the Movement. Much work must be completed before MDA is formally admitted in June 2006 at an International Conference at which the States party to the Convention, along with the other components of the Movement, will approve the necessary changes to the Movement statutes. 
   We request your assistance in facilitating the submission of the Third Additional Protocol to the Senate. If the Third Additional Protocol is ratified by the United States prior to the International Conference on June 19 - 21, we believe it will send a clear message of support for Israel to the other Governments. It will also signal to the world that the United States Government has taken a leadership position in the support of a new symbol that will afford needed protection to humanitarians working in conflict zones who otherwise may be targeted if they use the Red Cross or Red Crescent.
   Contact: Katie Norman, 202/224-6342.
 
 