SENATE PASSES SEN. DOLE'S BILL TO EXPAND CARL SANDBURG HOME NATIONAL HISTORIC SITE
  U.S. Sen. Elizabeth Dole today applauded Senate passage of her legislation to expand the boundary of the Carl Sandburg Home National Historic Site. The legislation, which was included in a public lands package, authorizes the expansion of the site by an additional 115 acres. Sen. Richard Burr is an original cosponsor of the bill, and Rep. Heath Shuler sponsored companion legislation that has been passed in the House of Representatives. 
   "The Carl Sandburg Home has enriched the lives of many North Carolinians through its rich history, natural beauty and abundant educational opportunities," said Dole. "I am pleased the Senate has approved this legislation to help visitors continue enjoying this site for many years to come."
   "I am pleased the Senate took another step towards enhancing the beauty and integrity of the Sandburg Home," Burr said. "These 115 additional acres would help preserve the site for generations to come. The new visitor center will draw more people to a historic site that celebrates one of America's finest authors."
   Many citizens, local government officials and park officials have expressed concern that development around the site, which is located in the Village of Flat Rock, could negatively impact the historic nature of the 264 acre park that was the home of the late poet, Carl Sandburg.
   Of the 115 acres to be included in the expansion, up to five acres are needed for visitor parking and a visitor center, and the remaining acres are needed for boundary and scenic view protection. The extension would be located west of Highway 225 and south of Little River Road.
   Background
   The expansion of the Carl Sandburg Home National Historic Site is supported by the Flat Rock Village Council, the Henderson County Board of Commissioners, the Greater Hendersonville Chamber of Commerce and the Travel and Tourism Committee of Henderson County. The site's expansion also is supported by the North Carolina National Park, Parkway and Forests Development Council.
   This legislation authorizes the expansion of the site's boundary and does not request federal funding.
 
 