SEN. DOLE ISSUES STATEMENT ON PRESIDENT'S IRAQ PLAN
  Sen. Elizabeth Dole this evening made the following statement regarding the president's address to the nation on his plan for Iraq:  
   "To succeed in Iraq, it is clear that we need a new plan, as the president acknowledged this evening. I am encouraged that the president's plan requires the Iraqis to play a much greater role in the stabilization of their country, and that his plan is more comprehensive than simply increasing the number of U.S. troops. 
   "The status quo in Iraq is not acceptable. Mistakes have been made, but I strongly believe that we can and must succeed. The current security and political situation in Iraq is difficult, but a precipitous withdrawal would guarantee defeat and would have catastrophic implications for the security of our country and the stability of the Middle East region. 
   "I am inclined to support the president's overall plan to make economic revitalization and reconstruction in Iraq a higher priority and to increase the U.S. troop presence to help the Iraqi government impose its authority, weaken the militias, and bolster reconstruction. As a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee and as a senator representing more than 100,000 North Carolina service members - many of whom will be deployed under this proposal - I want to know more details about the specific missions these men and women will perform, and how this new direction will get the job done, stabilize Iraq, and allow our troops in harm's way to return home. 
   "For example, I was pleased to hear that the president plans to assign additional troops to provide on-the-ground security after insurgents have been cleared from an area, thereby implementing the 'hold' portion of the military's 'clear, hold, build' strategy. This security is essential to increase popular support for the Iraqi government and to rebuild infrastructure. 
   "In addition, I welcome the Administration putting forward a plan to increase the overall size of the Army and Marine Corps. Our service chiefs have been requesting this for some time now, and with more and more being asked of our military, I strongly support an increase in the size of the Army and Marine Corps."
 
 