SEN. DOLE WELCOMES DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE REPORT ON PREDATORY LENDING PRACTICES
  The Department of Defense has released a report to Congress on predatory lending practices directed at members of the U.S. Armed Forces and their families. This report was required by legislation authored by Sen. Elizabeth Dole that was included in the Fiscal Year 2006 National Defense Authorization Act. Her legislation required the Department, in consultation with federal financial regulators and military and consumer groups, to provide Congress with a detailed assessment on predatory lending and recommendations for legislative remedies to the problem.  
   "This report presents a powerful picture of the extensive problems brought about by predatory lenders that target military families," said Dole. "I welcome this comprehensive set of proposals on how we may address this egregious practice and will closely assess the report's recommendations." 
   Background on Dole's Predatory Lending Legislation 
   Many young troops, like many young people across the country, do not have a cushion of savings to use in an emergency, and most are not educated in financial management. Lending can be an alluring option for a young soldier to get cash fast and easy, but predatory lending practices can send an individual into a downward spiral of debt. 
   Predatory lending practices can also have serious ramifications for our military's operational readiness. Military conduct codes stress financial solvency, and a member with bad credit and mounting debt can face potentially career-ending disciplinary measures. 
   Dole's legislation required the Department of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, the Chairman of the Federal Reserve, the Chairman of the FDIC, and representatives of military charity and consumer organizations to provide to Congress a report that includes: 
   * An assessment of how predatory lending is being directed at members of the armed services; 
  * A list of current and future programs to prevent or eliminate predatory lending to service members; including education on predatory lending for service members and their families; and 
  * Specific legislative and executive branch actions that should be undertaken to further address this problem. 
   Dole, the senior senator from North Carolina, is a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee.
 
 