SEN. DOLE CALLS FOR INVESTIGATION INTO ALLEGED FRAUDULENT FEMA CLAIMS
  Sen. Elizabeth Dole today called for an investigation into allegations of fraudulent claims to the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) following the hurricane season of 2004, and expressed concern about FEMA's fraud prevention measures and the system in which the agency verifies the legitimacy of claims. Many concerned constituents have contacted the Senator's offices in recent weeks regarding the claims.  
   "I applaud my constituents for maintaining contact with my office about this important situation," said Senator Dole. "It is absolutely paramount that folks in all parts of the state receive needed assistance as quickly as possible; however, it is crucial that assistance is given to the people who truly need it the most. In light of this situation, we must address the problems not only for the short term, but for the long term as well." 
   Senator Dole's requests were sent to both the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) and the Acting Inspector General (IG) of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. 
   "FEMA has already admitted to paying $12 million too much to about 3,500 people in Florida who applied for assistance because of hurricane damage. I am concerned that this is not an isolated problem. The distribution of federal funds has also been questioned in several North Carolina counties. I would like to respectfully ask that you review the overall audit process for FEMA claims and make recommendations for improving fraud detection in the future." 
   * Dole, in letter to The Honorable David M. Walker, U.S. Comptroller General 
   "While the state [NC] experienced significant damage in both the western and eastern parts of the state, it has been reported that six counties in the East received more than half of the $20 million in relief funds allocated to North Carolina. Overall, twenty-seven western North Carolina counties were declared disaster areas after the fall 2004 hurricanes, yet they did not receive sufficient aid to help their communities clean up and rebuild after suffering the majority of damage. Proper oversight in this matter is crucial to ensure that taxpayers' money is not wasted and that individuals receive the assistance they need to rebuild their lives." 
   * Dole, in letter to Richard L. Skinner, Acting Inspector General, U.S. 
   Department of Homeland Security 
   Since allegations of fraud were first raised, Senator's Dole's office has maintained regular contact with government officials from each of the disaster-affected counties as well as officials at FEMA through detailed inquiries and correspondence. 
   Representatives of Senator Dole's office have attended FEMA briefings and North Carolina Emergency Management meetings and have requested, on behalf of the Senator, that a FEMA representative attend and address a meeting with North Carolina officials to address discrepancies and delays in FEMA reimbursement.
   Contact: Lindsay Taylor, 202/224-7905. 
 
 