SEN. DOLE VOTES IN FAVOR OF CLASS ACTION REFORM
  Sen. Elizabeth Dole today made the following statement on the Class Action Fairness Act of 2005. Sen. Dole submitted a statement for the record and voted in support of the legislation.  
   Mr. President, I rise today in support of the "Class Action Fairness Act of 2005," legislation that is greaty needed to restore public confidence in our nation's judicial system and protect jobs in my own state and throughout the country. 
   Frivolous litigation has helped drive the total cost of our lawsuit system to more than $230 billion a year. Lawsuit costs in America are now far higher than those of any other major industrialized nation, and in our global economy, this has become a tremendous disadvantage for American manufacturers and entrepreneurs, who have long sought reform. But this affects not just certain businesses; this affects our overall economy and all Americans. 
   The Class Action Fairness Act will provide that some class action suits be litigated in the federal courts rather than allowing venue shopping for a sympathetic state court. The measure will also ensure that cases of national importance are not overlooked. Most importantly, this legislation will ensure that class members with legitimate claims are fairly compensated. 
   Class action suits are an important part of our legal system. They originated to make our courts more efficient by joining together parties with a common claim. However, growing abuses by opportunistic plaintiffs' attorneys - coupled with the skyrocketing costs of runaway litigation and excessive awards - have had a dramatic impact on America's interstate commerce. 
   Over the past decade, the number of class action lawsuits has grown by over 1,000 percent nationwide. And the jury awards are sharply increasing over time as well. In 1999, the top 10 awards totaled $9 billion; by 2002, that number had jumped to $32.7 billion. 
   Businesses, like those in my home state of North Carolina, are losing out because the rules in place today allow lawyers to "shop" for the "friendliest" court to hear their case. And it is not just large companies being sacked with enormous payouts in class action law suits - small businesses are bearing the majority of liability costs. According to a study conducted for the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, small businesses bear 68 percent of liability costs but take in just 25 percent of business revenue. 
   We all know that small businesses are the job creators and the engines of our economy. They create 70 percent of all new jobs in America. Yet the rules in place today allow for a judicial system that is truly hurting them and causing them to spend money - on average $150,000 a year - on litigation expenses rather than on business development and equipment and expansion - the very things that can lead to more jobs. 
   Our goal in reforming class action lawsuits is to provide justice to the truly injured parties, not to deny victims their day in court and their just compensation. Lawsuit costs have risen substantially over the past several decades, and a significant part of these costs is going towards paying exorbitant lawyers' fees and transaction costs. And some injured plaintiffs are suffering because of weak state court oversight of class action cases. In fact, under the current U.S. system, less than 50 cents on the dollar finds its way to claimants, and only 22 cents compensate for actual economic loss. 
   And sometimes class members don't receive cash at all. For example, in a settlement with Crayola, approved by a state court in Illinois, crayon purchasers in North Carolina and around the country received 75-cent coupons for the purchase of more crayons; their lawyers, however, received $600,000 in cash. 
   And in the Cheerios class action settlement, also approved by a state court in Illinois, consumers in North Carolina and around the country received coupons for buying a single box of cereal, while lawyers got $1.75 million. 
   I hardly think it's in the best interest of the class member to actually have to purchase more of a product to receive any benefit. And it isn't fair that class members are losing out while their attorneys are cashing in. 
   This legislation establishes a "Consumer Class Action Bill of Rights" that will ensure that class actions do not harm the intended beneficiaries - people who were actually harmed by the actions of a defendant. And it does nothing to prevent class members from having their cases heard - it just establishes that some of these cases may be heard in federal courts. 
   It is time we do what is right and repair this broken system - for claimants in class action cases, for our nation's economy, businesses large and small, and for all Americans.
   Contact: Lindsay Taylor, 202/224-7905. 
 
 