SEN. DOLE: CONGRESS MUST FUND MILITARY CONSTRUCTION
  Sen. Elizabeth Dole today announced that she has joined Sen. Jim Inhofe in introducing legislation to provide the Department of Defense with additional critical military construction and housing funding, including resources needed to implement the 2005 Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) requirements. The current continuing resolution (CR), a bill that provides short-term funding in the absence of an appropriations bill, does not provide more than $17 billion necessary for construction and BRAC projects, which were included in the fiscal year 2007 defense authorization bill.  
   "Congress must provide funding for programs that are critical to our defense - including BRAC implementation and other military infrastructure projects," said Dole. "The continuing resolution falls considerably short of meeting many of our military's needs. I am very concerned that if Congress fails to act, there will be serious, negative consequences for our military's operational readiness and our national security." 
   Army, Navy and Marine Corps leaders have urged Congress to act to ease the burden being placed on the military in the absence of a military construction appropriations bill. 
   "The message from our military leaders is clear--if Congress does not act, our military's ability to fulfill its missions in the War on Terror and prepare for future conflicts will be seriously compromised--and we will not be able to provide the quality housing our service members and their families greatly need," said Dole. 
   Background 
   The John Warner National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007, which was signed into law in October 2006, authorized more than $700 million for North Carolina military construction projects, including projects essential to BRAC implementation; however, because Congress has not passed a military construction appropriations bill for fiscal year 2007, such expenditures are being funded at the fiscal year 2006 levels through a continuing resolution. The CR does not provide the funds to cover the costs of projects associated with BRAC implementation, as well as other critical military infrastructure needs. 
   According to recent news reports, without this funding, Fort Bragg in North Carolina faces the delay of a $300 million project to build barracks, a vehicle maintenance facility and a multi-purpose range designed to accommodate weapons and training.
 
 