SEN. DOLE URGES FUNDING FOR GLOBAL POLIO ERADICATION
  Sen. Elizabeth Dole today urged support for U.S. funding for global efforts to eradicate polio as the Senate considers its Fiscal Year 2006 appropriations bills.  
   Specifically, Dole is urging $32 million in funding for the United States Agency for International Development's (USAID's) Polio Eradication Initiative included in the State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations bill. In addition, Dole is pushing for $106.4 million in polio eradication funding through the U.S. Center for Disease Control and Prevention's (CDC's) Childhood Immunization program included in the Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations bill. 
   "Polio eradication efforts around the world are clearly working, and U.S. support has been critical," said Senator Dole. "Since the global initiative began in 1988, more than two billion children around the world have received the oral polio vaccine. Funding will allow USAID and the CDC to continue to support intense immunization activities so that regions such as Africa and Asia can improve the quality and opportunity of polio immunizations." 
   The Global Polio Eradication Initiative - spearheaded by Rotary International and in conjunction with the CDC, the World Health Organization, and the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) - has made tremendous progress. In 2004 alone, 171 supplemental immunization activities were conducted in 45 countries reaching 372 million children with over 2.4 billion doses of oral polio vaccine. At of the end of 2004, polio is still endemic in six countries. In Asia, the number of cases was nearly halved in 2004 compared with 2003. 
   Dole urged for polio eradication funding in letters to Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman Mitch McConnell and Ranking Member Patrick Leahy as well as Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman Arlen Specter and Ranking Member Tom Harkin.
   Contact: Lindsay Taylor, 202/224-6342.
 
 