SEN. ELIZABETH DOLE RECOGNIZED AS 'CHAMPION' IN WORLDWIDE EFFORT TO ERADICATE POLIO
  Sen. Elizabeth Dole received Wednesday the Polio Eradication Champion Award for her ongoing work to secure critically needed funds to achieve a polio-free world. Rotary International, a global network of community-based business and professional leaders committed to humanitarian service, presented Dole with the award in recognition of her ongoing support of the effort to rid the world of polio.
   "We are in the midst of significant global challenges - war, natural disasters, cultural differences, and limited infrastructure," said Senator Dole. "But through the steadfast commitment of devoted partners, tremendous success in the eradication of polio has been and will continue to be made. 
   "U.S. leadership has been critical to improving the effectiveness of immunization campaigns, and I will continue to work with my Senate colleagues to ensure that our nation maintains its strong commitment to a polio-free world."
   Dole successfully pressed for $32 million in the fiscal year 2006 Foreign Operations Appropriations bill to provide for the United States Agency for International Development's (USAID) Polio Eradication Initiative. She also helped secure $106.4 million for the targeted polio eradication efforts of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Dole is again working to secure funding for these programs for fiscal year 2007.
   Polio, an infectious disease that can cause paralysis and sometimes death, still strikes children, mainly under the age of five, in parts of Africa and Southeast Asia. As there is no cure for polio, the best protection is prevention. For as little as 60 cents worth of vaccine, a child can be protected for life against this crippling disease.
   Since the mid-1980s, the U.S. government has contributed a total of $1.2 billion towards eradication efforts. James Lacy, past President of Rotary International said, "No child today should have to suffer the devastating consequences of polio, as an effective vaccine has made this disease preventable. U.S. leadership is crucial to ensuring that every child is protected."
   When Rotary began its polio immunization program in the mid 1980s, approximately 1,000 children were infected by this crippling disease every day. At the end of 2005, less than 2,000 children contracted polio all year, down from the 350,000 cases estimated in 125 countries in 1988. The Americas were declared free from polio in 1994, as well as the Western Pacific region in 2000, Europe in 2002 and most recently Egypt and Niger, in February 2006. Once eradicated, polio will be the second disease after smallpox ever to be eliminated worldwide.
   Despite this success, the final phase of the Global Polio Eradication Initiative is proving to be the most challenging. Reaching every child with the vaccine, including those in high-density populations and in areas of civil unrest, maintaining political commitment in the face of a disappearing disease, and a multi-million dollar funding gap are the major obstacles that still must be overcome.
   Rotary International is one of the largest volunteer service organizations with 1.2 million members in more than 160 countries. In 1985, Rotary created PolioPlus and set one of the most ambitious goals in history for global public health: to immunize the children of the world against polio. To date, Rotary has contributed nearly $650 million towards polio eradication. More than one million Rotary members have volunteered their time and personal resources to help immunize more than two billion children in 122 countries.
   The Global Polio Eradication Initiative is spearheaded by the World Health Organization, Rotary International, U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF). Additional support for the global polio eradication effort is provided by the U.S. Coalition for the Eradication of Polio, a group of committed child health advocates lead by Rotary that includes the March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, the Task Force for Child Survival and Development, the U.S. Fund for UNICEF, the American Academy of Pediatrics, and the United Nations Foundation.
   Contact: Katie Norman, 202/224-6342.
 
 