SEN. DOLE TELLS NORTH CAROLINIANS IDENTITY THEFT VERY REAL, VERY PREVALENT DURING SEMINAR IN RALEIGH
  Sen. Elizabeth Dole, a member of the Senate Banking Committee, today hosted an "Attacking Identity Theft" consumer education seminar in Raleigh. The event featured presentations and discussions on identity theft awareness from panelists who highlighted how thieves steal personal and financial information and suggest ways to prevent personal risk.  
   "Identity theft is often cited as the fastest growing crime in the nation, and a large portion of the victims include our senior citizens," said Dole. "Identity thieves are constantly looking for new ways to rip off hard-working, law-abiding Americans. I think Congress has made some significant strides toward closing the loopholes that identity thieves exploit, but we have a lot more work to do. I certainly hope that all North Carolinians are paying close, close attention - because it is very real and very prevalent," Dole added. 
   Representatives and information from a number of federal and state agencies were available, including the Federal Trade Commission, the U.S. Postal Inspection Service, the U.S. Secret Service, the North Carolina Senior Consumer Fraud Task Force, and the N.C. Department of Justice, as well as the banking and credit reporting industry. 
   Dole, the senior Senator from North Carolina, is also a former member of the Federal Trade Commission. 
   Background 
   The Senate Banking Committee, of which Senator Dole is a member, has had a number of hearings on the issue of identity theft and Congress has written important new laws to help protect Americans. 
   In 2003, Congress designed and approved the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act, or the "FACT Act." This law gives consumers powerful tools to detect and prevent identity theft. It ensures access to free yearly credit reports, which are available at www.AnnualCreditReport.com and allows consumers to place "fraud alerts" on their credit reports. It also places meaningful new obligations on financial institutions to prevent identity theft. 
   For more information, please visit the Federal Trade Commission's website at www.consumer.gov/idtheft/
 
 