SEN. DOLE HAILS PASSAGE OF TOBACCO QUOTA BUYOUT
  Today a final version of the FSC-ETI Act, with a tobacco buyout included, was passed by the Untied States Senate. It ensures critical relief to thousands of farm families across North Carolina. The buyout has been Sen. Dole's number one priority since her election to the Senate. 
   "Passing the Tobacco Quota Buyout has been my top priority since arriving in the US Senate and I'm thrilled that we were able to get this done," said Senator Dole. "It is critically important for our farm families and will provide an economic ripple effect throughout rural North Carolina. Today is truly a historic day for the state of North Carolina."
   The buyout provides payments of $7 per pound to quota holders and $3 per pound to growers. The payments, based on the 2002 quota level, would be distributed over a ten-year period. The funds required will be obtained from manufacturers and importers of all tobacco products sold in the United States and will total $10.14 billion. North Carolina farmers and quota holders are expected to receive $3.9 billion of that amount, the largest of any state. The economic ripple effect of this legislation is estimated to be $9 billion, according to NC State economist Blake Brown.
   In July 2003, Senator Dole, along with a bipartisan group of senators from tobacco-producing states, introduced the Tobacco Market Transition Act. This legislation served as the basis for what was passed in Congress today.
   Background
   Since 1997, quota has dropped almost 60 percent. Without a buyout, according to noted agriculture economist Blake Brown, tobacco farmers would face a minimum 33 percent cut in quotas for the 2005 crop year.
   The tobacco buyout is attached to a corporate tax bill called the FSC-ETI (Foreign Sales Corporation - Export Trade Incentives) Act. The bill repeals European tariffs on many American-made products-many of which are made in North Carolina. And this legislation also cuts taxes for U.S. manufacturers.
 
 