SEN. DOLE CALLS FOR EXPANSION OF CARL SANDBURG HOME NATIONAL HISTORIC SITE
  Today the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources' Subcommittee on National Parks held a hearing on the Carl Sandburg Home National Historic Site Boundary Revision Act of 2007. U.S. Sen. Elizabeth Dole introduced the legislation in February and asked the committee chairman and ranking member to hold the hearing. She made the following statement to the committee:  
   Mr. Chairman, Members of the Committee: thank you for holding this hearing today on S. 488, which has a rather long title, the Carl Sandburg Home National Historic Site Boundary Revision Act of 2007. I introduced the bill earlier this year, after hearing from many of the site's visitors, consulting with its superintendent and reviewing the site's management plan. I welcome the opportunity today to express my strongest support for the expansion of this treasured historic site. 
   The Carl Sandburg Home has enriched the lives of many North Carolinians and thousands of other visitors through its rich history, natural beauty and abundant educational opportunities. Many citizens, local government officials and park service officials have expressed concern that development around the site could negatively impact the historic nature of the park that was the home of the famed late poet. This bill will help ensure that future generations can enjoy this site for many years to come. 
   As the subcommittee is aware, my bill would add 115 acres to the current site for boundary and scenic view protection. The Village of Flat Rock and Henderson County, where the Carl Sandburg Home is located, both support the site expansion. To illustrate how important this is - a 22-acre parcel of land that forms the scenic backdrop was purchased by the State of North Carolina's Department of Cultural Resources from the Conservation Trust of North Carolina. But, in order for the site to enter into an agreement with the State of North Carolina for the management of the 22-acre parcel, the land must first be within the site's authorized boundary. This bill would allow for that to occur. 
   Mr. Chairman, as you are well aware, North Carolina is home to many National Parks - the Appalachian National Scenic Trail, the Blue Ridge Parkway, Cape Hatteras National Seashore, Cape Lookout National Seashore, and the Great Smoky Mountains National Park, to name a few. As we approach the National Park Service's centennial, we should take steps such as this that will preserve our national parks and prepare them for the next 100 years. 
   Mr. Chairman, Members of the Committee: I encourage you to support S. 488, and I thank you again for holding this hearing.
 
 