SEN. DOLE APPLAUDS MEASURE TO DIRECT NORTH SHORE ROAD FUNDING TOWARDS CASH SETTLEMENT TO SWAIN COUNTY
  U.S. Sens. Elizabeth Dole (R-N.C.) and Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.) and U.S. Rep. Heath Shuler (D-N.C.) today applauded the Senate Appropriations Committee's approval of an amendment that could send up to $6 million to Swain County for a cash settlement in lieu of building the North Shore Road. Dole, Alexander and Shuler have objected to the significant environmental and economic costs associated with building the road.  
   The committee unanimously approved an amendment that would allow unspent money in the fiscal year 2001 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations bill to be used for a cash settlement to the people of Swain County. 
   "I applaud the committee's approval of this measure to direct funding towards a cash settlement for the residents of Swain County," said Dole. "The federal government needs to compensate the people of Swain County, and today's action is a step in the right direction. I look forward to continuing to work with Sen. Alexander and Rep. Shuler on the legislative framework for a full cash settlement, which will provide much needed resources for Swain County's local schools, economic development, and other important services." 
   "This is an important first step in fulfilling the commitment the United States made to Swain County in 1943 when the building of Fontana Dam flooded a highway," Alexander said. "Today, the Senate Appropriations Committee did the right thing in unanimously approving a way to give compensation to the people of Swain County, North Carolina instead of building a destructive road through a wilderness area through the Great Smoky Mountains National Park. This is the right solution for the taxpayers of America, the right solution for the people of Swain County and the right solution for those who love the Great Smoky Mountains." 
   "The people of Swain County have waited over 60 years for a resolution to the issue of the North Shore Road. The Senate's passage of this amendment today is a tremendous step toward that resolution. I applaud the efforts of my colleagues in the Senate and look forward to working closely with them to secure a settlement for Swain County," said Shuler. 
   In May, the National Park Service announced its intention to designate the settlement as the Agency Preferred Alternative to building the road through the Great Smoky Mountains National Park. The National Park Service expects to formally publish its endorsement of this alternative in September, followed by a 30-day public comment period. 
   The project to build the road was initiated to replace a state highway flooded by construction of Fontana Dam in the late 1940s. Today's legislation directs the remaining dollars to the people of Swain County as a down payment on the money that they are owed. 
   NOTE: Once approved by the full appropriations committee and the Senate, this version of the bill must be reconciled in conference with the House of Representatives-passed version of the bill. A final bill then will have to be approved by both the House and the Senate and go before the president for his signature.
 
 