SEN. DOLE CALLS FOR FULL RECOGNITION OF LUMBEE INDIAN TRIBE
  Sen. Elizabeth Dole today made the following statement in a Senate Indian Affairs Committee hearing on her bill, the Lumbee Recognition Act:
   Mr. Chairman and Mr. Vice Chairman, thank you very much for holding this important hearing today. And my deepest thanks for your strong leadership on many issues affecting Native Americans.
   We are here this morning to discuss tribal recognition. The Lumbee Tribe of North Carolina has waited more than 100 years for full federal recognition - and 50 years in order to right a wrong that denied them the benefits granted to every other recognized tribe. I introduced the legislation we are considering today, the Lumbee Recognition Act, because I deeply believe that it is the right thing to do. In fact, it was the very first bill I introduced in the United States Senate. With more than 50,000 members, the Lumbee Tribe is the largest east of the Mississippi River as well as the largest non-federally recognized tribe in America. 
   Joining us today are Lumbee Chairman Jimmy Goins and other members of the Lumbee tribe who have journeyed here to make their case yet once again. As many of you will remember, this committee held a hearing on the Lumbee Recognition Act on September 17, 2003 - the very same day Hurricane Isabel was bearing down on North Carolina and moving up the East Coast. Undeterred, members of the Lumbee Tribe traveled in the face of that powerful storm, determined to make it to their Senate hearing. It is this resolve of the Lumbees, even after years of struggles and disappointments, that inspires me to take up this fight alongside them and to advocate for the recognition they rightfully deserve.
   I welcome the support of my good friend Senator Richard Burr, who has joined me to introduce the Lumbee Recognition Act. And I greatly appreciate the hard work Congressman Mike McIntyre is doing in the House on this issue. Thank you both for being here today. In addition, I would like to note the endorsement of North Carolina Governor Mike Easley, who wrote last week to this committee to express his strong support for Lumbee recognition. And Mr. Chairman, I request that the governor's comments be included in the record.
   For more than a century, the Lumbees have been recognized as American Indians. North Carolina formally recognized the tribe in 1885, and three years later, in 1888, the tribe began what has become a very long quest for recognition and assistance from the federal government.
   Over the years, many bills were introduced in Congress to provide the Lumbees with federal recognition, but these bills were never acted upon or were passed by only one chamber. Finally, in 1956, Congress passed the Lumbee Act?but there was a caveat: the Lumbees were denied the full benefits that every other federally recognized tribe receives. Refusing to accept this partial nod to their legitimacy and their proud heritage, the Lumbees - and their allies in Congress - have been unrelenting in their quest for what the tribe deserves - to be treated by the federal government like every other recognized tribe.
   There are some who argue that the Lumbees should be required to go through the Bureau of Indian Affairs, rather than through legislation; however, the Lumbee Act of 1956 actually prohibits the tribe from going through the BIA process. As the law now stands, the Lumbee Tribe can only be recognized by an act of Congress. Just one other tribe, the Tiwas of Texas, faced a similarly unfair situation following the passage of a comparable bill in 1965. But in 1987, Congress enacted special legislation to recognize them. This makes the Lumbees the only tribe in the country still trapped in this legal limbo and ineligible for the administrative acknowledgement process because of an earlier act of Congress
   The BIA process is reserved for tribes whose legitimacy must be established, and as we know, that is certainly not the case with the Lumbees. Their legitimacy has been established time and time again. There have been numerous studies by the U.S. Department of the Interior, beginning as early as 1913, then again in 1914, and yet again in 1933. Each time, it has been determined that the Lumbees are indeed an Indian tribe, descended from the historic Cheraw Indians. There is no need to waste the tribe's or the government's time and money again.
   Let me also underscore it has been documented by GAO that getting through the BIA process can be arduous and lengthy. A 2001 GAO report revealed that it can take up to 15 years to resolve petitions for recognition. And a 2005 follow-up report underscored that even with some improvements to the BIA process, it would still take years for BIA to work through its current backlog of recognition petitions, and even longer to consider new petitions. It is clear that even if the Lumbee could legally go through BIA, this would only impose yet another lengthy delay on this tribe.
   Over the last several years, I have had many opportunities to visit with the Lumbees. One occasion in particular stands out in my mind, a 2003 rally in Robeson County with my good friend Congressman McIntyre. This rally brought together the entire community, uniting people of all ages, all races and all backgrounds for a common goal: getting the Lumbee Indians the full recognition and benefits they deserve.
   In the last Congress, this committee unanimously approved the Lumbee Recognition Act - I urge you to once again report this bill out of the Committee as expeditiously as possible. Simply put, this is about fairness?it's about righting a wrong?and allowing future generations of Lumbees to benefit from the recognition for which their ancestors have fought tirelessly.
   Following Congressman McIntyre, this committee will hear testimony from several other distinguished panelists, including Chairman Goins, a dear friend and determined advocate for his tribe. Arlinda Locklear, a talented attorney and nationally recognized expert on Indian Tribes. In 1984 Arlinda became the first Native American woman to appear before the U.S. Supreme Court. And Dr. Jack Campisi, an adjunct professor at Wellesley College who is an expert on tribal and Lumbee issues. He has actually lived among Lumbees in Robeson County while conducting his research.
   In closing, let me thank you again Mr. Chairman and Mr. Vice Chairman for holding this hearing. And thank you for the privilege to present my heartfelt views on the issue of fairness for the Lumbee people.
   Radio Clip available at: http://src.senate.gov/public/_files/radio/dole07_12_06.mp3
 
 