SEN. DOLE RECOGNIZED FOR LEADERSHIP ON DELAYING MEDICAID CUTS
  U.S. Sen. Elizabeth Dole today received the "Safety Net Award" from the National Association of Public Hospitals (NAPH) for her leadership in the Senate to secure a moratorium on a Medicaid policy change that would impose cost limits for public health care providers, thus resulting in many North Carolina hospitals losing millions of dollars annually and eliminating the safety net for uninsured and low-income patients. 
   Last year, Dole succeeded in securing a one-year moratorium on this rule change, thereby preventing North Carolina hospitals from losing $330 million in 2007 alone. She has introduced bipartisan legislation with 28 cosponsors that will extend the moratorium, which is set to expire in May 2008, for another year.
   "I am proud to have worked to delay a hastily proposed Medicaid regulation that would cost hospitals millions of dollars annually for treating low-income and uninsured patients - costs that would be passed on to other patients, and even result in cuts to services and jobs and increases in local taxes," said Dole. "I will continue my strongest efforts to protect our nation's hospitals and the patients who rely on them by extending this critical moratorium."
   "Safety net hospitals and the patients and communities that rely on them in North Carolina and across the nation are grateful for Senator Dole's outstanding leadership. NAPH was pleased to present Senator Dole with our Safety Net Congressional Leadership Award in recognition of her role as the leading Republican sponsor of S. 2460. This important legislation would prevent DHHS from implementing unlawful regulations that, if implemented, would have a devastating impact on the nation's health safety net," said Larry S. Gage, President of the National Association of Public Hospitals and Health Systems (NAPH).
   Background
   In early 2007, Dole, along with Sen. Richard Durbin (D-Ill.), led a successful effort to pass a one-year moratorium on the proposed Medicaid policy change. In December 2007, Dole joined Sen. Jeff Bingaman (D-N.M.) in introducing bipartisan legislation that would extend the moratorium by one year.
 
 