SENATE PASSES INDIVIDUALS WITH DISABILITIES EDUCATION ACT 2004 REAUTHORIZATION
 Today the Senate passed legislation reauthorizing the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA), in a 95-3 vote.  
 This bill makes much-needed improvements to the nearly 30-year-old program, helping ensure that all students with disabilities receive a quality education. 
   "To individuals with disabilities, a quality education can make the difference between dependence and independence, between unrealized potential and productive careers," said Dole. "The legislation passed today makes much-needed improvements to this important program. This bill gives our local schools more flexibility so they can address local priorities, and it reduces the paper work burden on teachers so they can focus their energy and time on what they do best, educating our children." 
   In the 2002-2003 school year, more than 190,000 students in North Carolina (ages 3-21) were served under IDEA. Nationwide in 2002, more that 6.5 million students with disabilities were served under the instruction of more than 430,000 special education teachers. 
   Bill Highlights 
   The bill streamlines state and local requirements, simplifies contractual paperwork, establishes consistency in regulations and requires the U.S. Department of Education to further review paperwork simplification possibilities. 
   The bill makes sure students are learning by ensuring that states focus on improved academic results, clarifying methods for measuring student progress and providing for a national study of assessment systems. 
   The bill helps forge positive parent-school relationships by providing alternate dispute resolution, strengthening mediation processes, requiring direct communication when complaints are filed and encouraging prompt resolution. 
   Students with disabilities sometimes can present behavioral and safety challenges. The bill gives schools the tools they need to ensure the safety of students and teachers while protecting rights and providing support.
   Contact: Brian Nick, 202/224-6342.
 
 