SEN. DOLE: MEDICARE FAIRNESS
  Today more than 25 million Americans, including more than 813,000 North Carolinians, are enrolled in the new Medicare prescription drug benefit and are receiving more affordable access to life-saving medications. Each week that number grows, as hundreds of thousands of additional beneficiaries enroll in comprehensive drug plans that will save them money and keep them healthier. 
   For a majority of these beneficiaries the program is working properly, and they are receiving their prescription drugs at a much lower cost than before. In fact, the typical senior will end up spending about half of what he or she used to spend on prescriptions each year. Pharmacies across the nation are filling one million prescriptions a day to Medicare drug plan enrollees, and many Americans who did not have prescription drug coverage before are now benefiting from this program
   There are some beneficiaries who are having trouble transitioning into the new program. In many cases it is the dual eligible individuals, those who qualify for both Medicare and Medicaid benefits, and the low-income subsidy population who are having the most trouble. This is obviously unacceptable and clearly not what was intended, and I am pleased that the Administration has been working to identify and remedy these problems. It is absolutely essential that the new drug benefit is working for all beneficiaries, pharmacists, and physicians.
   It is important to remember the new Medicare prescription drug benefit is the largest change to Medicare since the program's creation 40 years ago, and with any change of this scale, it is nearly impossible to avoid start-up challenges. In 1966, during the first year of the original Medicare program, there were a number of pitfalls that frustrated folks. However, through experience and hard work, these hurdles were overcome and the lives of many elderly people were improved.
   We have already seen tremendous progress in solving some of the initial difficulties with the implementation of the new Medicare drug benefit. The Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has worked diligently to streamline data submissions, enhance customer services, and expand pharmacy support. As a result, pharmacists are getting more accurate beneficiary information, wait times for 1-800-MEDICARE are significantly shorter, and enrollees are getting the drugs they depend on much faster.
   I want to thank the many people who have been working around the clock to quickly improve the systems that were faltering. I also thank the many pharmacists, physicians, plans, caseworkers, state officials, friends, and family members who continue to work together to assist beneficiaries in their communities.
   In the coming days and weeks it is vital that all parties involved continue to make a concerted effort to strengthen the new Medicare prescription drug program. Congress must make certain that the work being done is meeting the needs of every beneficiary. We have learned valuable lessons in the first months that will provide guidance as we improve the new drug benefit. I will continue to work with my colleagues in the Senate to make certain that challenges are being addressed appropriately so that every enrollee can receive their medications.
   Hundreds of thousands of North Carolinians and millions of Americans are better off thanks to the benefits provided by this landmark program - and there is no reason why every enrollee should not share the same experience.
 
 