SEN. DOLE SUPPORTS ENERGY BILL
  The U.S. Senate late yesterday approved the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007, which Sen. Elizabeth Dole supported. Dole worked to make the bill better for North Carolina, for example pushing for an increase in the Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE) standards and working to remove a one-size-fits-all renewable portfolio standard that would have significantly raised energy prices, particularly for consumers in the southeastern states.  
   "Although this legislation is not perfect, I am pleased that we were able to win some key battles to make it a much better bill," said Dole. "For example, with my strong support, we were able to raise the nation's fuel economy standards, which will lessen our dependence on foreign oil sources and reduce greenhouse gas emissions." 
   Dole, a former Secretary of Transportation, worked with her colleagues on a measure to raise fuel economy standards for cars and light trucks to 35 miles per gallon (mpg) by model year 2020, an increase of 10 mpg over current standards. This will save 800,000 barrels of oil per day in 2020 and nearly one million barrels per day by 2021, according to the organization Securing America's Future Energy. 
   During Senate consideration of the energy bill, Dole also fought to include a safeguard in the Renewable Fuel Standard - a mandate that relies heavily on corn-based ethanol. Dole shares the concerns of livestock, dairy and poultry producers who worry that the increasing demand for corn could negatively impact North Carolina, a corn-deficient state. The Renewable Fuel Standard was ultimately included in this energy legislation; however, it is anticipated that that this bill will increase the production of other cellulosic fuels such as biodiesel, which could lessen the demand for corn-based ethanol. 
   The energy legislation, which must be approved by the House and then go to the president for his signature to be enacted into law, will also create new energy efficiency standards for appliances, increase energy efficiency in residential and industrial buildings, increase energy savings by the federal government, accelerate research and development for renewable energy and encourage carbon sequestration.
 
 