SEN. DOLE FIGHTS TO SAVE NORTH CAROLINA HOSPITALS MILLIONS OF DOLLARS
  U.S. Sen. Elizabeth Dole, along with Sen. Jeff Bingaman (D-N.M.), led 62 senators in calling for a legislative fix to extend the moratorium on the proposed Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) rule to limit Medicaid payments to public hospitals. The proposed CMS rule would have a devastating effect on North Carolina's Medicaid system, costing our North Carolina hospitals hundreds of millions of dollars annually and eliminating the safety net for uninsured and low-income patients.  
   The rule proposed by CMS on January 18, 2007 would impose cost limits for public health care providers and alter the definition of "public" status. The rule would limit payments to government safety net providers by capping reimbursement payments, redefining eligible public providers and imposing new restrictions on non-federal funding sources. In early 2007, Dole joined forces with Sen. Richard Durbin (D-Ill.) to lead a successful effort to pass a one-year moratorium on this proposed CMS rule. Thanks to this bipartisan effort North Carolina hospitals were spared a loss of $330 million this year. 
   Forty-five North Carolina hospitals have "public" status and are eligible for Medicaid reimbursements for services provided to uninsured and low-income patients. Without the moratorium, 43 of these hospitals would have lost their "public" designation. 
   In a letter this week to Senate and House committee leaders, Dole and her colleagues wrote, "Hospitals and states are being forced to take action now to prepare for these impending Medicaid cuts. It is therefore important for Congress to act this year to extend the original moratorium?We strongly urge you to act now to stop these rules and to reaffirm Congress' role in setting Medicaid policy for this country by including an extension of the Medicaid moratorium in an end-of-year legislative package. Our patients, providers, and Medicaid enrollees can not wait until next year for us to take action." 
   This week Dole also joined Bingaman to introduce legislation that would extend the moratorium by one year, prohibiting CMS from implementing both the Medicaid Financing and the Medicaid Graduate Medical Education rules until May 2009. The bill also clarifies that the outpatient rule recently released by CMS is also subject to the existing moratorium.
 
 