SEN. DOLE MEASURES INCLUDED IN DEFENSE BILL
  The U.S. Senate today approved the defense authorization bill for fiscal year 2008, which Sen. Elizabeth Dole supported. Included in the legislation were Dole's measures to notify potential victims of past water contamination at Marine Corps Base Camp Lejeune, to extend the Family and Medical Leave Act for military families and to improve health care and services for our returning wounded warriors and veterans. In addition, Dole earlier this year had the funding for an outlying landing field at the Washington and Beaufort Counties site (Site C) eliminated from the Senate version of the defense bill, and she continued her efforts to ensure it was not part of this final bill, which now goes to the president for his signature.  
   "This defense authorization bill includes a number of measures I was proud to fight for on behalf of our service members, veterans and their families," said Dole. "I also was proud to fight for North Carolinians who do not want an OLF at Site C. I have made it clear to the Navy that I will not support an OLF that does not have local support, and as a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, I will continue to stand in the Navy's way of getting any money to build an OLF that doesn't meet this standard." 
   Water Contamination at Camp Lejeune 
   Dole's provision would require the Secretary of the Navy to directly notify Marines, dependents and civilian employees who were assigned at Camp Lejeune between 1958 and 1987 that they were exposed to harmful chemicals in the installation's water system. The last contaminated wells were closed in 1987, but the U.S. Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (ATSDR) has found that babies exposed in utero to the drinking water developed leukemia and other cancers, as well as birth defects, such as spina bifida and cleft palate. 
   "We cannot correct a past mistake by avoiding the fact that this contamination occurred," said Dole. "Notifying these Marines, their families and civilian employees is a necessary first step and is the right thing to do." 
   Government estimates show that over three decades, nearly one million people living and working at Camp Lejeune were exposed to drinking water contaminated with trichloroethylene (TCE), dichloroethylene (DCE) tetrachloroethylence (PCE), and in their degraded forms, benzene, methyl chloride and vinyl chloride. These chemicals are found primarily in industrial degreasing solvents, dry cleaning solvents and fuels. 
   Dole's amendment requires that after one year, direct notification efforts are to be supplemented with notification through the national media. The amendment also directs the Secretary to send a voluntary survey to these individuals to ask about their health status. 
   Military Family and Medical Leave Act 
   Dole helped introduce a measure to extend the Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) for up to six months for spouses, sons, daughters, parents and next-of-kin of members of the Armed Forces, including the National Guard or Reserve, who have combat-related injuries. This measure enacts a key recommendation of the Commission on Care for America's Returning Wounded Warriors. 
   "When members of our armed forces are injured while answering the call of duty, they deserve to have their loved ones' comfort and support," said Dole. "This measure will ensure that spouses, parents, sons and daughters of wounded service members can take time to care for them without fear of losing their jobs and livelihoods. This is the right thing to do for our military families." 
   In its review the Commission, which was led by former Sen. Bob Dole and former Secretary of Health and Human Services Donna Shalala, found that 33 percent of active duty, 22 percent of reserve component, and 37 percent of retired/separated service members report that a family member or close friend relocated for extended periods of time to be with them while they were in the hospital. In addition, 21 percent of active duty, 15 percent of reserve component, and 24 percent of retired/separated service members say friends or family gave up a job to be with them or act as their caregiver. 
   Care for Wounded Warriors and Veterans 
   Dole was a cosponsor of the Wounded Warrior measure to improve the care of service members and veterans at the nation's military and veterans medical centers. 
   "Our nation's heroes must always be treated with the dignity and care they so richly deserve," said Dole. "I especially welcome this bill's focus on a number of issues facing our returning wounded warriors and veterans, particularly traumatic brain injury, Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder and mental health care." 
   Most importantly, the provision requires that the Departments of Defense and Veterans Affairs jointly develop a comprehensive policy on how to improve patient care, management and the transition of recovering service members from DoD to VA medical care. It requires the DoD to develop a comprehensive plan on prevention, diagnosis, mitigation, treatment and rehabilitation of and research on traumatic brain injury, Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder and other mental health conditions. It further authorizes the establishment of Centers of Excellence to conduct research and treat these conditions. 
   In addition, the bill requires the DoD to use VA standards for eligibility of service members for disability retirement and requires the DoD to use the VA schedule for rating disabilities. 
   The legislation also establishes standards for medical treatment facilities and military quarters that house patients. It requires an independent study by the National Academy of Sciences on the physical and mental health and other adjustment needs of members and former members of the armed services. 
   Furthermore, the legislation mandates the establishment of fully interoperable electronic personal health information systems between the DoD and the VA. It also establishes a Family Readiness Council to improve the support and coordination of family readiness programs and a hotline to report care or facilities problems.
 
 