SEN. DOLE ANTI-HUNGER INCLUDED IN SENATE-PASSED FARM BILL
  The U.S. Senate today passed the Farm Bill, which included a number of provisions sponsored by Sen. Elizabeth Dole that support efforts to help feed the hungry. In addition, the Farm Bill includes a nationwide expansion of the Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Program and improvements to the food stamp and other food assistance programs. The bill in its current form contains some objectionable measures, and Dole is committed to working to resolve these issues when the Senate bill is reconciled in a conference committee with the House of Representatives-passed bill. 
   Dole's anti-hunger initiatives in the Farm Bill include:  
   * The Food Employment Empowerment and Development (FEED) Act, which Dole worked on with Sen. Frank Lautenberg (D-N.J.), helps fight hunger by combining food rescue with job training, thus teaching unemployed and homeless adults the skills needed to work in the food service industry. 
   * An amendment that addresses four tax issues that will encourage food donations and volunteering to help the hungry. This package will extend for two years a provision from the Pension Protection Act that allows any taxpayer to claim an enhanced deduction for donations of food; allow restaurants to qualify for this deduction; simplify the rules that allow farmers and ranchers to take advantage of this deduction for donating their products; and allow volunteers to receive a tax deduction for mileage incurred while transporting food donations. 
   -Reauthorization of the McGovern-Dole International Food for Education and Child Nutrition Program which provides U.S. commodity and agricultural products and financial and technical assistance for school feeding and child nutrition services in some of the world's poorest countries. 
   Below are remarks Dole made on the Senate floor this afternoon: 
   There has been a great deal of debate regarding many aspects of the farm bill; but, there is one issue that has received relatively little attention on the Senate floor, yet it is one of the most important matters facing our country. That issue is hunger, Mr. President, and it affects one in 10 U.S. households?including nearly one million of North Carolina's 8.8 million residents. 
   Fortunately, the farm bill we've just passed contains a number of provisions that will support efforts to help the hungry. Take for example, the Food Employment Empowerment and Development Act, or the FEED Act, which Senator Lautenberg and I have worked on together. I am very pleased that this measure has been included in the manager's package. The FEED Act helps fight hunger by combining food rescue with job training, thus teaching unemployed and homeless adults the skills needed to work in the food service industry. This provision will provide much-needed resources to community kitchens around the country. 
   Successful FEED-type programs already exist. For example, in Charlotte, North Carolina, the Community Culinary School, which I visited last month, recruits students from social service agencies, homeless shelters, halfway houses and work release programs. And just around the corner from the United States Capitol, students are hard at work in the DC Central Kitchen's culinary job training class. This is a model program, which began in 1990, and it is always a privilege for me to go over to the Kitchen and meet with folks who've faced great adversity but are now on track for a meaningful career. Earlier this year, I visited on their graduation day, and the graduates were so excited they were dancing in the kitchen! They were ready to start good jobs! 
   Of course, for the DC Central Kitchen, Charlotte Community Culinary School and other hunger relief organizations to carry out their mission, they must have food. To this end, I am very pleased that Senator Grassley and Senator Lugar joined me as co-sponsors of my food donation amendment included in the manager's package. My thanks to Chairman Baucus, and a special thank you to Ranking Member Grassley, as well as their staffs for working with me in this effort. My amendment addresses four tax issues that will encourage food donations and volunteering to help the hungry. 
   First, it extends a provision from the Pension Protection Act that allows any taxpayer to claim an enhanced deduction for donations of food. This deduction is set to expire at the end of the year; my amendment extends it for two additional years. 
   Second, my amendment allows restaurants to qualify for this deduction. Unfortunately, a drafting error excluded most restaurants from utilizing this deduction due to their tax structure. My amendment corrects this problem and provides restaurants with an extra incentive to donate food for hunger relief. Third, it simplifies the rules that allow farmers and ranchers to take advantage of this deduction for donating their products. 
   And finally, my amendment allows volunteers to receive a tax deduction for mileage incurred while transporting food donations. As a former President of the American Red Cross, I know first hand the importance of volunteers - there would be no Red Cross without the 1.3 million volunteers - and I understand that many charities, like Meals on Wheels, depend on volunteers' using their personal vehicles to deliver food to countless tables across the country. 
   In addition, volunteers who glean and transport food could benefit from this tax deduction measure. Excess crops that would otherwise be plowed under or thrown out are taken from farms and other entities and distributed to the needy. In the Old Testament, in the book of Ruth, we learn that she gleaned in the fields so that her family could eat. 
   Each year in this country, 96 billion pounds of good, nutritious food is left over or thrown away. Gleaning helps eliminate this waste. I have gleaned a number of times with an organization called the Society of St. Andrew, the latest being sweet potatoes in Harnett County, North Carolina in October. 
   Mr. President, while I have a number of concerns about the farm bill and its impact on North Carolina agriculture, I welcome this bill's hunger and nutrition focus. Especially at this beautiful season of giving and thanksgiving - we should remember our 35 million fellow Americans who are struggling just to have enough to eat. The bill's provisions will help us keep up the fight in the battle against hunger. This is a campaign that cannot be won in months, or even a few years, but with a caring government and a caring people working together, ending hunger in America is certainly a victory within reach.
 
 