SEN. DOLE, NORTH CAROLINA LEADERS UNDERSCORE COMMITMENT TO MILITARY INSTALLATIONS DURING MEETING WITH PENTAGON'S KEY BRAC DECISION MAKER
  Sen. Elizabeth Dole today held a meeting in her office with members of the North Carolina Congressional delegation, Lieutenant Gov. Beverly Purdue and Mr. Phil Grone, Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Installations and Environment, the key decision maker from the Pentagon regarding the upcoming Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission. Sen. Richard Burr, Rep. Walter Jones, Rep. G.K. Butterfield, and a representative from Rep. Robin Hayes' office attended.  
   "As a delegation, support for our state and our military installations transcends party lines," said Senator Dole. "We have been working tirelessly to build on our state's military tradition and to strengthen the future of our proud installations. In my view, it was critically important that we underscored, once again, our firm commitment to our bases, and we made that crystal clear in our meeting today." 
   According to a study conducted by Eastern Carolina University, the economic impact of North Carolina's military facilities is impressive, contributing more than $18 billion to the state's economy. More than 100,000 personnel are based at those active facilities. In addition, North Carolina has one of the highest military retiree and veteran growth rates in the nation. Also, North Carolina is a leader in quality of life programs and educational support not only for military personnel but for their families as well. 
   "I am so proud of our North Carolina service men and women and the role they play in protecting our homeland," said Senator Dole. "I was pleased with today's meeting, and I look forward to the work ahead." 
   Over the last two years, Senator Dole has worked to secure $815 million for new military construction projects in North Carolina, including $24 million for North Carolina National Guard construction projects and $425 million for barracks and facilities.
   Contact: Katie Norman, 202/224-6342. 
 
 