SEN. DOLE EMPHASIZES IMPORTANCE OF TERRORISM INSURANCE
  Sen. Elizabeth Dole, a member of the Senate Banking Committee, today emphasized her support for renewing the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act (TRIA) during a committee hearing in which U.S. Treasury Secretary John Snow testified. TRIA was enacted shortly after the attacks of September 11, 2001 to create a government backstop for business and consumer losses resulting from terrorist attacks. This law is set to expire on January 1, 2006.  
   Below are Senator Dole's remarks as delivered: 
   As we are all painfully aware, the events of September 11, 2001 brought about changes in many aspects of American life. And just last week, we were all shaken by the terrorist attacks on London - certainly our thoughts and prayers continue for the victims and their families. The events in London remind us of how unexpected and vicious these attacks can be. 
   Terrorist attacks, particularly large scale events such as those on 9/11, have significant effects on the ability of consumers and businesses to obtain insurance. Insurance coverage provides security and certainty for Americans and is extremely important to continued economic growth and job creation. 
   In November 2002, President Bush signed into law the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act to provide a government backstop for excessive losses caused by acts of terrorism and to establish a temporary mechanism that the government would use to provide assistance should, heaven forbid, another large scale terrorist attack occur in the United States. In my eight years as President of the American Red Cross, I have seen time and again how a good plan of action, established in advance, can make a dramatic difference after a disaster. 
   The Government Accountability Office has recently determined that the insurance industry has made little progress to date in providing terrorism insurance without government involvement. This finding is of great concern. 
   While the lack of any notable progress on this effort is disappointing, it is understandable, since we continue to lack sound methods to predict the likelihood of terrorist attacks. Insurance companies have developed highly sophisticated models that anticipate the likelihood of natural disasters, such as hurricanes in North Carolina. Such models suggest that there is a high probability that our nation will experience a number of hurricanes over the next 15 years. However, acts of terrorism are man-made, and we have no way to foresee the possible frequency or size of such events - hence, we have no way to price the risk involved. This uncertainty has hindered private market solutions to this problem. 
   TRIA was created to provide temporary coverage for large scale insured losses and to ensure availability of terrorism coverage for consumers. God forbid we ever face a truly catastrophic nuclear or biological attack - one that has the potential to kill countless Americans over a very wide area - but we cannot ignore the possibility. Because this threat does exist, we should enact a long-term mechanism to protect against truly catastrophic losses. This should include large scale losses to group life insurance. 
   Mr. Secretary, I have reviewed your statements to the House Committee on Financial Services from yesterday, and I believe it is clear that you and the Administration understand the important role a federal backstop continues to play in our nation's economic growth and development. I look forward to working with you in the coming months to reform and strengthen TRIA so that we may maintain this important government backstop, while also encouraging innovation and creativity in the private insurance market. 
   This is an issue that has profound implications for the strength of our economy. I stand ready to work with my colleagues as the committee considers appropriate action.
   Contact: Lindsay Taylor, 202/224-6342.
 
 