SEN. DOLE PRAISES JOB TRAINING, COMMUNITY COLLEGE FUNDINGS INCLUDED IN SENATE APPROPRIATIONS BILL
  Sen. Elizabeth Dole applauded the inclusion of funding for community colleges, job training, dislocated workers and other education and job-related programs in the Senate Labor, Health and Human Services and Education Appropriations bill, which was approved by the full Appropriations Committee today. The bill will now be considered by the entire Senate on a date to be determined.  
   "In North Carolina and many other states where the traditional industries are in transition, community colleges and job training programs offer a real beacon of hope by helping the local workforce meet the challenges of new jobs and opportunities," said Senator Dole. "This appropriations bill provides critical education funding that will help prepare a new generation of skilled workers so our workforce will remain strong and competitive in years to come." 
   "I am pleased this bill also includes significant funding to assist dislocated workers," said Senator Dole. "Workers, families and entire communities are affected by layoffs and plant closings, and it is critical that we respond to their needs." 
   Dole has been a strong proponent of community colleges and their important role in educating the workforce for highly skilled, high demand jobs. Most recently, Dole introduced the Higher Education Affordability, Access, and Opportunity Act of 2005, which is designed to help universities, colleges and community colleges develop stronger links to the workforce and better prepare students for the jobs of the 21st century. The U.S. Department of Labor estimates that as many as 80 percent of the jobs being created over the next 10 years will require post-secondary training. 
   The Committee-approved bill includes the following funding: 
   Community College Initiative - $125 million to establish a new Community College Access Grants program designed to boost college enrollment and completion, in particular among low-income students. 
   Perkins Career and Technical Education - $1.309 billion to support local career and technical education programs. Senator Dole urged the Appropriations Committee to include Perkins funding in the bill. 
   Job Training - $5.25 billion for job training programs, including $893.6 million for adult job training and $986.3 million for youth training. 
   Dislocated Workers - $1.476 billion for states to fund rapid response assistance to help workers affected by mass layoffs and plant closures. 
   Pell Grants - $13.177 billion - Funding supports a maximum grant of $4,050. Pell grants provide need-based grant aid to help more than 5 million low- and middle-income undergraduate students and their families pay the costs of postsecondary education and vocational training. 
   GEAR UP - $306.5 million to support low-income elementary and secondary students as they prepare for and pursue a postsecondary education. 
   TRIO - $836.5 million - TRIO Programs are educational opportunity outreach programs designed to motivate and support students from disadvantaged backgrounds. Includes six outreach and support programs targeted to serve and assist low-income, first-generation college students, and students with disabilities to progress through the academic pipeline from middle school to post-baccalaureate programs. 
   Special Education Grants to States - $10.69 billion 
   Once approved by the full Senate, this version of the bill must be reconciled in conference with the House of Representatives-passed version of the bill. A final bill then will have to be approved by both the House and the Senate and go before the president for his signature.
   Contact: Lindsay Taylor, 202/224-6342.
 
 