SEN. DOLE SEEKS INCLUSION OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT MEASURE IN FARM BILL
  U.S. Sen. Elizabeth Dole urged the chairman and ranking member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture to include in the Farm Bill her measure that provides economic development grants to distressed communities in North Carolina and across the Southeast. Dole introduced legislation to establish the program, the Southeast Crescent Authority (SECA) Act, earlier in the 110th Congress. 
   SECA would provide funding to spur economic development, establish priorities in development planning, support local development districts and encourage private investment in the region.
   "As you work to develop a farm bill that benefits all of America, I urge you to strongly consider authorizing a program that would provide much-needed economic and infrastructure development for many depressed areas across the rural South," Dole wrote to Sens. Tom Harkin (D-Iowa) and Saxby Chambliss (R-Ga.). "Agriculture continues to be the dominant industry throughout the region, and it is important that we do all we can to improve the lives of the people who feed and clothe our fellow Americans."
   Dole has garnered bipartisan support for the SECA Act and worked closely with the University of North Carolina, as well as Rep. Mike McIntyre, who has companion legislation.
   Background
   Once the Southeast Crescent Authority is formed, the authority would define the specific criteria that determine what qualifies a county or area as distressed. States would work with local development districts to determine what projects should be submitted to SECA for support. Broadly, infrastructure projects, education and job training, and entrepreneurship and leadership development
   The region impacted by the SECA Act encompasses millions of people in 429 counties across seven states: North Carolina, Virginia, South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama, Mississippi, and Florida.
   North Carolina counties that would be eligible to benefit from the SECA Act include: Alamance, Anson, Beaufort, Bertie, Bladen, Brunswick, Cabarrus, Camden, Carteret, Caswell, Catawba, Chatham, Chowan, Cleveland, Columbus, Craven, Cumberland, Currituck, Dare, Davidson, Duplin, Durham, Edgecombe, Franklin, Gaston, Gates, Granville, Greene, Guilford, Halifax, Harnett, Hertford, Hoke, Hyde, Iredell, Johnston, Jones, Lee, Lenoir, Lincoln, Martin, Mecklenburg, Montgomery, Moore, Nash, New Hanover, Northampton, Onslow, Orange, Pamlico, Pasquotank, Pender, Perquimans, Person, Pitt, Randolph, Richmond, Robeson, Rockingham, Rowan, Sampson, Scotland, Stanly, Tyrrell, Union, Vance, Wake, Warren, Washington, Wayne and Wilson.
 
 