SEN. DOLE: WE MUST PROTECT OUR SERVICE MEMBERS FROM PREDATORY LENDING
  Sen. Elizabeth Dole, a member of the Senate Banking Committee, made the following statement in a hearing on the Department of Defense's Report on Predatory Lending Practices Directed at Members of the Armed Forces and Their Dependents. Senator Dole authored the legislation that directed DoD to prepare the report.
   Remarks as delivered:
   Thank you Chairman Shelby and Ranking Member Sarbanes for your interest in this important issue and for holding this hearing today. Thank you Secretary Chu for your excellent work - and I appreciate the diligent efforts of those who assisted you in this endeavor. I also thank the witnesses and look forward to hearing from you. I am very proud to have authored the legislation that directed the Department of Defense to prepare the report we are focused on today?because this problem poses a real threat to our national defense. 
   Predatory lenders are blatantly targeting our military personnel, undermining their financial stability and tarnishing their service records. This practice not only creates financial problems for individual soldiers and their families, but it also weakens our military's operational readiness. Military conduct codes stress financial solvency, and bad credit can prevent service members from having the security clearances they need to perform their duties. Unfortunately, all too many are reluctant to seek help until it's too late?resulting in disciplinary measures that can end a career. Let me focus on testimony from a commanding officer included in the DoD report: "Between 2000 and 2005, revoked or denied security clearances for Sailors and Marines due to financial problems have increased 1600 percent." I find it telling that the report also shows that in the same time period, the number of payday lenders more than doubled, from 10,000 in 2000 to 23,000 in 2005.
   Overall, predatory lending costs U.S. consumers more than $25 billion a year, and these lenders profit from the most vulnerable borrowers. As we see in this report, several factors make our men and women in uniform particularly susceptible to this practice. For starters, many are young and - and like most young Americans - they lack financial savvy and security. In fact, the Defense Department is the largest employer of young adults in the United States, with nearly half of its enlisted members under the age of 25. In addition, service members have job security and steady incomes, and they are fashioned by a military culture that emphasizes financial responsibility and settling debts. Borrowing can be an alluring option for a young soldier to get cash fast and easy, but exorbitant interest rates can quickly send an individual into a downward spiral of debt.
   As the Pentagon report mentions, my home state of North Carolina has been aggressively cracking down on predatory lenders, imposing a 36 percent small loan usury cap reinforced by a strong bank regulator. Other states also are active in combating this practice. While this is indeed encouraging, the report also mentions states where the problem continues, like Arkansas, which has a low usury cap in its constitution but still allows lenders to charge triple-digit interest rates to service members stationed at Little Rock. We need national standards that ensure that all of our courageous men and women in uniform are protected - no matter where they are based.
   The DoD report states that as many as one in five service members are falling victim to predatory loan operations. Still there are some who question whether these lenders are truly targeting our military?even when many of these lenders, specifically military installment lenders, market themselves with names and logos that imply an official military connection. For example, as we can see here: "Armed Forces Loans" - "Military Loans.com" - and "Pioneer Military Lending."
   In addition, the geographic evidence speaks for itself. Let's look at this February 2005 map of the state of North Carolina. This was prepared by Dr. Steven Graves from California State University, Northridge. Keep in mind that this map was created at a time when North Carolina had 612 payday lenders - today, because of our state's laws, these lenders no longer operate in North Carolina.
   This 2005 map shows us the most targeted zip codes for payday lending in North Carolina. We can see that the larger population centers, around Charlotte and Raleigh, have high concentrations of payday lenders, as would be expected. But look at the counties with the greatest number of payday lenders - these are areas with significant military presence. The county with the state's highest concentration was Wayne County, home of Seymour Johnson Air Force Base. Cumberland County, where Fort Bragg and Pope Air Force Base are located, had the third highest concentration, and Craven County, site of Marine Corps Air Station at Cherry Point, had the fourth.
   Let's specifically look at Fort Bragg and Pope Air Force Base. In 2005, statewide there were roughly four banks to one payday lender, but in the entire three mile zone surrounding the perimeter of Bragg and Pope, the ratio was four banks to every five payday lenders.
   Now, let's look at this February 2005 map of just the eastern side of Bragg and Pope. This map shows that seven of the 36 payday lenders in just this area, or about 20 percent, were within one mile of the bases, while just five of the 68 banks are in the same area. And if we look between one and two miles of the base, there are six additional payday lenders and only one bank. In the two to three mile zone, the ratio of payday lenders to banks gets closer to the statewide average, with three payday lenders and six banks. In reviewing the DoD report and other maps produced by Dr. Graves, it is apparent that some unscrupulous payday lenders are clustering around military bases across the nation.
   As a Senator representing more than 115,000 North Carolina-based service members, and as a member of both this committee and the Senate Armed Services Committee, this issue is one of my top priorities. With my support, the Senate approved an amendment to the fiscal year 2007 Defense Authorization, sponsored by Senator Talent, to enact a 36 percent annual interest rate cap on abusive loans to service members. Last year, I proposed a similar amendment to the defense authorization bill, but encountered jurisdictional objections. The interest rate cap provision now awaits consideration by a House-Senate conference committee. I am hopeful that a provision on predatory lending that includes the rate cap, as well as additional recommendations from the Pentagon report, will be included in the final legislation. Should the conference report not properly address this problem, I will introduce legislation that incorporates the report's recommendations.
   Supporting our service members means more than providing the equipment and training necessary for fighting the War on Terror - we also should support their livelihood and their families - and predatory lending can seriously harm both. I look forward to working with this committee as we strive to put a stop to this egregious practice.
   RAdio clip available at: http://src.senate.gov/public/_files/radio/dolelending09_14_06.mp3
 
 