SEN. DOLE: GSES NEED STRONG REGULATION NOW
  Sen. Elizabeth Dole, a member of the Senate Banking Committee, today made the following statement in a Banking Committee hearing on the recent OFHEO report on Fannie Mae:
   I want to thank Chairman Shelby for holding today's hearing on the OFHEO Report of the Special Examination of Fannie Mae. This report not only confirms my deep concerns about Fannie Mae - it demonstrates that the GSE's actions were far worse than I could have imagined. 
   Nearly three years ago, after it was revealed that Freddie Mac had misstated its earnings, Senators Hagel, Sununu and I introduced legislation to strengthen the regulation of the GSEs. And Fannie and Freddie responded, dispatching an army of lobbyists to Capitol Hill and spending tens of millions of dollars to oppose our bill. In 2004, their lobbying tab totaled $26 million - and just last year, more than $24 million. At times it has truly felt like David and Goliath!
   No one has better described Fannie's mindset than the current CEO, who in an internal memorandum of November 2004 asserted: "the old political reality was that we always won, we took no prisoners, and we faced little organized political opposition." Even today, after all that we now know about Fannie and Freddie, the GSEs' influence on the Hill remains strong.
   But we in Congress must stand up to any political influence the GSEs continue to wield. The facts speak for themselves: On May 23rd the Securities and Exchange Commission concluded that, "between 1998 and 2004, Fannie Mae engaged in a financial fraud involving multiple violations of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in connection with the preparation of its annual and quarterly financial statements." The SEC went on to explain that, "these violations had the effect, among other things, of falsely portraying stable earnings growth and reduced income statement volatility, and - for [the] year-ended 1998 - of maximizing bonuses and achieving forecasted earnings."
   Some had earlier claimed that Fannie and Freddie's problems were an understandable misapplication of complicated, obscure accounting rules. We now know that this was not the case - that in fact Fannie and Freddie were committing fraud?for many years?in part driven by certain executives' personal greed. There can no longer be any doubt about what we must now do here in Congress - Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac need strong regulation, to ensure that fraud and manipulation in their accounting practices have been forever banished from these institutions. And we need it now. This report represents a clarion call?for the swift consideration and passage of legislation to create a new, independent regulator of these enterprises. This new regulator should have the authority to limit the sizable portfolios of both Fannie and Freddie, thereby redirecting the GSEs to their original mission and preventing them from engaging in activities that could undermine their safety and soundness, or place them in systemic risk
   I thank both OFHEO and the SEC for their tenacious and diligent work on this issue. Director Lockhart, your report provides a detailed and complete exposé, not only of the many complex transactions that underlay the problems at Fannie Mae, but also of the broader culture of venality that developed at the GSEs. I thank you and the other witnesses for joining us here today. Thank you.
   Background
   In July 2005, the Senate Banking Committee approved legislation introduced by Dole and her colleagues Senators Chuck Hagel (R-NE) and John Sununu (R-NH) that would improve oversight of Government Sponsored Enterprises (GSE). The bill, the Federal Enterprise Regulatory Reform Act (S. 190), must now be considered by the full Senate.
 
 