SEN. DOLE URGES ACTION ON NORTH CAROLINA MEDICAL LIABILITY CRISIS
  Sen. Elizabeth Dole today urged action on the medical liability crisis confronting North Carolina during a Senate Leadership news conference. According to the American Medical Association, North Carolina is one of 20 states that have reached a crisis level because of sky-rocketing medical liability premiums.  
   "For years, our country has enjoyed world-class health care. But I believe our world-renowned health care system is at risk due to frivolous lawsuits and the big-money fees lawyers get from them," said Dole. "We need to remind folks that a dialogue on medical liability reform needs to continue, as this is a very real issue, particularly in North Carolina." 
   Dole specifically highlighted the effect the crisis is having on women, whose access to obstetric and gynecological services is greatly limited by the rural nature of North Carolina. Women in underserved rural areas have been hit particularly hard by the loss of Ob-Gyn doctors leaving their states. The loss of even one Ob-Gyn can leave these women without critical and needed care. 
   "Right now, because Ob-Gyns are fleeing their practice, women are being denied access to this critical specialty. This means that women aren't receiving preventive tests that can save lives, and pregnant women must travel great distances to have their babies delivered. We need legislation that deals with the immediate crisis facing Ob-Gyns, so that women have access to the best possible health care," Dole added. 
   Dole cited Dr. Mary-Emma Beres of Sparta, North Carolina, a small town with a population just under 2,000. Dr. Beres had to stop delivering babies after facing a 300 percent increase in her malpractice premiums. Her departure left only one obstetrician to handle high-risk cases, and it meant some women who needed C-sections had to endure a 40 minute ambulance ride to another hospital for their baby to be delivered. 
   Dole also pointed out that obstetricians in Western North Carolina have seen their insurance premiums increase 50 to 100 percent. Women's Care, P.A., the largest Ob-Gyn physician group in North Carolina, saw its premiums increase 30 percent in 2003 - for 3 times less coverage. She referenced Dr. John Schmitt, an Ob-Gyn who left his practice in Raleigh after seeing his insurance premiums triple from $17,000 to $46,000 a year. Because of this, he now teaches at the University of Virginia. 
   Dole also discussed how doctors who do remain in business are forced to practice defensive medicine and order an excessive amount of tests and procedures to protect themselves from lawsuits. She cited Dr. Steve Turner of Garner, NC, who once estimated that internists like him prescribe close to $1.2 million per year in defensive medicine per doctor. 
   Also in attendance at the news conference were Vivian M. Dickerson, president of The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, Majority Leader Bill Frist, Republican Conference Chairman Rick Santorum, Senator John Ensign and Senator John Thune.
 
 