SETTING THE RECORD STRAIGHT
  Yesterday U.S. Sen. Elizabeth Dole, along with Sen. Richard Burr, wrote to Gov. Mike Easley, rejecting his suggestion that the state's congressional delegation should develop additional proposals for OLF sites. Today Dole further addressed this, saying: 
   "We don't need to go through yet another exercise in futility and put more communities through the turmoil of an OLF site selection process. And let's be very clear about one thing here: It was the governor who decided to work directly with the Navy to pick the six new locations. It was also the governor and the Navy who didn't reach out to officials at the local level to discuss potentially placing a landing field in their backyards. I think that was a very big mistake, and the governor and the Navy have now paid the price for that mistake. They've wasted the last few months on something that was known from day one, had they only talked to the local communities. And now there is an attempt to throw this mess on the laps of the delegation, and I think that is just wrong."  
   Recent Dole Actions: 
   Earlier this year, after opposing the Navy's preferred OLF site in Washington and Beaufort Counties (Site C), Dole, who sits on the Senate Armed Services Committee, stripped the funding for an OLF at Site C from the defense bill. 
   On September 18, 2007, the governor and the Navy announced the new six potential North Carolina OLF sites (2 in Gates, 2 in Camden, Onslow/Jones border, Duplin/Pender border). Dole immediately reached out to local officials in affected counties for their feedback. 
   On September 27, 2007, in a letter to the Navy, Dole expressed serious concerns over the process the Navy and the governor used to identify the six sites, writing: "Based on my office's outreach to many elected leaders in the potentially affected communities?it appears that little if any effort was made to confer with local officials during the latest OLF site search? I cannot stress enough that broad local support for an OLF is essential, and I will oppose the Navy's efforts to acquire any site in North Carolina that fails to meet this standard." 
   On October 10, 2007, Dole met with officials from Camden, Chowan, Currituck, Gates, Hertford, Pasquotank and Perquimans Counties, who unanimously told her that they oppose an OLF in northeastern North Carolina because it would bring little to no economic benefits and affect the residents' quality of life. Dole stated again that she would oppose any site that did not have local public support. 
   The following week Dole facilitated a meeting in Washington D.C. between numerous county officials from northeastern North Carolina and high level officials from the Navy. 
   On November 13, 2007, Gov. Easley wrote to members of the North Carolina delegation, saying that the affected counties "were overwhelmingly opposed to an OLF and see almost all burden and no benefit." His letter continued, "My recommendation is that you ask the Navy to take these views into account and develop alternative proposals." 
   On November 14, 2007, Dole and Burr wrote a letter to Gov. Easley stating, "While we agree with your assessment that North Carolina residents and officials in potentially impacted areas are overwhelmingly opposed to an OLF, we disagree with your view that the best course of action is now for the congressional delegation to recommend that the Navy develop yet another list of potential locations - in addition to the 21 it is currently considering for an OLF."
 
 