SENATE APPROVES SEN. DOLE AMENDMENTS IN DEFENSE BILL
  The U.S. Senate today approved the fiscal year 2006 National Defense Authorization Act, which authorizes military activities for the U.S. Department of Defense, funding for military construction, and other related defense programs. The bill includes amendments authored by Sen. Elizabeth Dole, which are highlighted below:  
   Protecting Military Families from Predatory Lending 
   Dole's amendment requires the Department of Defense, in consultation with the Treasury Department, the Federal Reserve, the FDIC, and representatives of military charity and consumer organizations to provide to Congress within 90 days a report that includes: 
   * An assessment of how predatory lending is being directed at members of the armed services; 
   * A list of current and future programs to prevent or eliminate predatory lending to service members, including education on predatory lending for service members and their families; and 
   * Specific legislative and executive branch actions that should be undertaken to further address this problem. 
   The amendment also places the Senate on record acknowledging the nature and extent of the predatory lending problem. 
   "This is an egregious practice that must be stopped," said Dole. "Many young troops, like many young people across the country, do not have a cushion of savings to use in an emergency, and most are not educated in financial management. Lending can be an alluring option for a young soldier to get cash fast and easy, but exorbitant interest rates can send an individual into a downward spiral of debt. 
   "Predatory lending practices can also have serious ramifications for our military's operational readiness. Military conduct codes stress financial solvency, and a member with bad credit and mounting debt can face potentially career-ending disciplinary measures. I am pleased that we are taking action towards finding a solution to this problem." 
   Dole's amendment has received support from The Military Coalition and the Fleet Reserve Association, as well as numerous consumer groups, which have praised the provision as "an important first step toward providing comprehensive protection." 
   Improving Access to Mental Health Counselors 
   Dole's amendment would make mental health counseling more accessible for service members and their families by allowing certified and licensed mental health counselors to directly bill TRICARE, without a physician's referral, in areas where there is an insufficient availability of mental health care providers. 
   "It is estimated that more than half of U.S. counties have no practicing psychiatrists," said Dole. "There is no question that when our military men and women are deployed and separated from their families, the emotional stress and trauma can be unimaginable. It is absolutely imperative that they have access to mental health services not only to mitigate potential long term effects like depression, violence or divorce, but also to ease the adjustment after returning from long deployments." 
   Procurement of U.S. Products 
   Dole's amendment directs the Department of Defense (DOD) to better train military acquisition personnel regarding the requirements and application of the Berry amendment (implemented in 1941), which requires DOD to give preference in procurement to domestically produced, manufactured, or home grown products. 
   "Our military, which works so hard to protect our freedoms, should also be well-trained to remain a good customer of our American industries," said Dole. "This is essential to supporting the businesses that supply our troops with the equipment they need to carry out their duties." 
   Dole, the senior senator from North Carolina, is a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee.
   Contact: Lindsay Taylor, 202/224-6342.
 
 