SEN. DOLE TO FEDERAL RESERVE CHAIRMAN: WE MUST ENSURE ECONOMIC GROWTH, NEW OPPORTUNITIES FOR WORKFORCE
  Sen. Elizabeth Dole, a member of the Senate Banking Committee, today urged the new Federal Reserve Chairman, Ben Bernanke, to focus on economic growth and new opportunities for North Carolina workers during a committee hearing on the First Monetary Policy Report to Congress for 2006. The text of Dole's remarks is below:  
   Chairman Bernanke, one of the issues I raised when we met in November was the economic transition we're going through in North Carolina. We continue to experience job loss, especially in textile and furniture manufacturing. The national economy is indeed trending positively, but we must continue to focus special attention on the areas where folks have lost their jobs, when companies struggle to compete with foreign firms and their dramatically lower cost structures. We've got to work towards trade agreements that benefit American workers and consumers and support jobs and growth in our domestic industries. 
   One issue I was focused on during my days as Secretary of Labor was addressing the growing gap between skilled and unskilled workers. Today, in our changing economic environment, this gap has unfortunately widened, and as our economy moves forward, the opportunities for lower skilled workers are diminishing. We've got to do everything in our power to ensure these folks realize new opportunities, and educate our less skilled workers so that they can take advantage of the new jobs that are being created. To this end, I believe we should take steps to improve Trade Adjustment Assistance and continue to make strengthening our community colleges a top priority. 
   I might add that the Labor Department estimates that 80 percent of new jobs created over the next decade will require post-secondary education. In my conversations with many North Carolinians I hear concerns - about job creation, high energy and health care costs, our growing trade imbalance. I continue to have confidence that the very forces that stimulate economic growth - tax relief to spur investment, free but fair trade, ever-improving global communications, higher education and training for our workforce, and of course, hard, hard work - these forces indeed will put us on a course toward greater opportunity for North Carolina and this nation.
   Contact: Katie Norman, 202/224-6342. 
 
 