SEN. DOLE RAISES NORTH CAROLINA ISSUES TO FEDERAL RESERVE CHAIRMAN GREENSPAN
  Sen. Elizabeth Dole today raised important North Carolina issues with Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan during his appearance before the Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee hearing on the Federal Reserve's semi-annual monetary policy report to the Congress. In her questioning, Sen. Dole asked Chairman Greenspan about the impact of rising health care costs on businesses and job creation and the outlook for manufacturers in the next year.  
   In addition to her questioning, Senator Dole delivered a statement at the hearing. Text is below: 
   Statement of Senator Elizabeth Dole 
  Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs 
  Hearing on Monetary Policy Report 
  February 16, 2005 
   Welcome, Chairman Greenspan. 
   Two weeks ago when the Federal Open Market Committee raised its target for the federal funds rate and the discount rate by 25 basis points, the release noted robust underlying growth in productivity, a gradually improving labor market, and moderate growth in output. 
   All of these, coupled with low inflation, appear to indicate a positive track for economic expansion in the coming years. 
   While these trends certainly are pleasing, I continue to be concerned about the slower pace of job creation. 
   As you well know, the state of North Carolina has experienced dramatic losses in manufacturing employment. While the whole economy trends positively, we continue to focus special attention on those who lost their jobs due to the inability of their companies to compete with foreign firms that operate with dramatically lower cost structures. 
   We must equip our nation's poorest citizens with the necessary tools to take advantage of new jobs created by the expanding economy. To this end, I continue to make strengthening our community colleges a top priority. 
   I've spoken before about the work that Senators Enzi, Alexander and I undertook last year. In addition to the president's $125 million proposal to establish a new community college access grant program, our bill provides increased assistance to our community colleges and other institutions of higher learning for training and retraining of students in high-growth job markets. I look forward to working again on this legislation with my colleagues in this session of Congress. 
   I also remain concerned about high energy prices, the rise in steel prices and the size of our trade deficit. 
   In December, leaders in the city of Charlotte, North Carolina, and I were shocked to discover that the contracts for the South Corridor Light Rail construction came in at $30 million over estimates due to the increases in steel and concrete prices. It is explained that this dramatic rise in price was caused by China's growing demand for steel and concrete. Despite these concerns, though, I'm confident that through increased trade, hard work, global communications, and continuing education of our workforce, we will achieve new levels of opportunity and global security for all Americans. 
   And I look forward to hearing from you on these and other matters, Chairman Greenspan. Thank you for joining us today.
   Contact: Katie Norman, 202/224-6342.
 
 