SEN. DOLE RAISES ISSUES ABOUT WAR ON TERROR WITH CENTRAL COMMAND LEADER
  Sen. Elizabeth Dole, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today raised issues with military leaders about the Global War on Terror in a hearing on military strategy and operational requirements in review of the Defense Authorization Request for Fiscal Year 2007 and the Future Years Defense Program. The Committee heard testimony from General John P. Abizaid, Commander, United States Central Command, and General Bryan D. Brown, Commander, United States Special Operations Command. 
   Senator Dole's remarks and questions are below. For a transcript of the witnesses' responses, please contact Senator Dole's press office.
   It is a privilege to be here with General Abizaid and General Brown. Welcome to you both. I have great admiration and profound respect for your leadership and for the men and women under your command who are making sacrifices every day for the safety and security of this country. Thank you for joining us.
   General Abizaid, the drug trade in Afghanistan remains a serious concern. As you know, heroin trafficking makes up a large proportion of that country's Gross Domestic Product, and money from this illicit trade is falling into the hands of warlords and the Taliban, and this can definitely threaten the survival of this young democracy. Would you review what CENTCOM is currently doing to help combat the drug trade in Afghanistan, and would you support making counter narcotics a higher priority for CENTCOM?
   Now knowing the great progress that has been and continues to be accomplished in Iraq, it must be frustrating to hear accounts from our media that offer sometimes nothing but negativity and pessimism. To quote a veteran that I have a great deal of respect for, Bob Dole said: "Saddam Hussein is in jail; the Taliban have been overthrown; 50 million people in Iraq and Afghanistan now are getting a little taste of freedom; and other rogue leaders like Qaddafi of Libya now know that the United States means business."
   I just want to make sure that our servicemen and women know how very proud we are of them and that we fully support the cause of freedom and democracy. How damaging to our troops' morale has this often negative focus been, and what more can be done to ensure that the positive achievements of our troops are given the credit they deserve?
   One final question, our military forces are without question the best-trained in the world in traditional warfare. At the same time, in both Iraq and Afghanistan our men and women in uniform continually find themselves preoccupied with concerns like settling civil disputes, mediating local politics or supporting public utilities. And succeeding in these non-traditional activities is crucial of course to winning the Global War on Terror and promoting global stability. Beyond programs such as foreign-language training and cultural-sensitivity training, what is being done to equip our military personnel with the tools that they need for this multi-tasking, non-combat role that they find themselves playing on a regular basis?
   Contact: Katie Norman, 202/224-6342.
 
 