SENATE ARMED SERVICES COMMITTEE AUTHORIZES NATIONAL DEFENSE BILL
  Sen. Elizabeth Dole today announced that the U.S. Senate Armed Services Committee, of which she is a member, has approved the Defense Authorization Bill for Fiscal Year 2006. Sen. Dole succeeded in obtaining significant funding for North Carolina in the bill, including more than $380 million for military construction projects and more than $110 million for defense industry research and development in the state.  
   "North Carolina's military installations play an integral role in our national defense, and this was affirmed on Friday when the Defense Department sent its list of recommendations to the BRAC Commission," said Senator Dole. "The funding included in this bill for North Carolina further advances our position as a leading military state by providing for construction at our bases and for the defense industry in our state. 
   "I am impressed with the quality and innovation behind our state's defense industry. This growing industry will help create quality jobs for North Carolinians and ensure that our nation's forces always have the technological advantage." 
   The bill also includes funding for efforts to provide early diagnosis and treatment of post-traumatic stress syndrome and other mental health concerns associated with the stress of combat. 
   "I also am pleased that the Committee is supporting mental health care for our service members and their families," said Senator Dole. "This care is crucial in helping people through the demands of the on-going war." 
   The Defense Authorization Bill for Fiscal Year 2006 is expected to be considered by the full Senate later this month. 
   "Taking care of our military and their families is critical for success in the ongoing War on Terror and remains a top priority," said Senator Dole. "I want to make sure they have every resource possible to continue their phenomenal job." 
   Bill Highlights 
   Provides more than $380 million for military construction projects at North Carolina installations, including: 
   * $27 million at MCAS Cherry Point (Havelock) for military housing 
   * More than $225 million at Fort Bragg (Fayetteville) 
   * More than $50 million at Camp Lejeune/ MCAS New River (Jacksonville) 
   * More than $67 million at Seymour Johnson Air Force Base (Goldsboro), including nearly $50 million for housing 
   Provides more than $110 million for in-state defense industry research and development. 
   Extends Imminent Danger pay for service members for the duration of their hospitalization. 
   Increases the death gratuity payment to $100,000 to families of service members killed in combat zones, in-transit, engaged in hazardous duty, or in training for deployment. Senator Dole has co-sponsored two bills that would increase the death gratuity. 
   Establishes three pilot programs to evaluate the efficacy of various approaches to improving the capability of the military and civilian primary health care systems to provide early diagnosis and treatment of post-traumatic stress syndrome and other mental health concerns associated with the stress of combat. 
   Calls on the Department of Defense to increase awareness for military families on the availability of TRICARE mental health benefits and how to access these services through both military and civilian providers.
   Contact: Lindsay Taylor, 202/224-7905. 
 
 