SEN. DOLE ANNOUNCES THAT N.C. SHERIFFS TO PARTNER WITH FEDERAL IMMIGRATION OFFICIALS TO IDENTIFY, APPREHEND AND REMOVE CRIMINAL ILLEGAL ALIENS
  U.S. Sen. Elizabeth Dole today announced that North Carolina has been designated as the first state in the nation to have a statewide plan for sheriffs to partner with Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) to effectively handle illegal aliens who have committed crimes. Under the plan, ICE will provide programs and services that will support the specific needs of sheriffs throughout North Carolina.  
   Dole, who met with more than 40 sheriffs in August and attended the plan's unveiling at the North Carolina Sheriffs' Association fall meeting today, has facilitated discussions between ICE officials and North Carolina sheriffs in recent months to help local law enforcement access the resources they need. 
   "Through this unique partnership with federal officials, North Carolina sheriffs can utilize the available tools to enforce our laws and help ensure that North Carolinians feel safe in their homes and communities," said Dole. "I firmly believe that North Carolina can become a model for the nation on how to identify, apprehend and remove undocumented aliens who have self-identified themselves by committing crimes. Today is a significant step in that direction." 
   "As the President of the North Carolina Sheriffs' Association, I am thrilled that North Carolina will serve as a model for the United States by implementing a plan to remove undocumented aliens who are committing crimes in this country," said Johnston County Sheriff Steve Bizzell. 
   According to ICE, a steering committee comprised of local and federal officers will work with partnering agencies to develop appropriate timelines and decide how to best leverage tools under the ICE ACCESS (Agreements of Cooperation in Communities to Enhance Safety and Security) program. Services and resources include: the Law Enforcement Support Center (LESC), which helps identify criminal aliens; ICE's Criminal Alien Program (CAP), which locates criminal aliens processed through jails and prisons; Operation Community Shield, which targets and arrests gang members; joint document and benefit fraud task forces to impede identity theft; and the delegation of 287g authority. 
   In an example of North Carolina law enforcement agencies' significant interest in such a partnership, ICE received more North Carolina requests for 287g, which allows local law enforcement to receive training and authority from ICE to help process criminal illegal aliens, than from any other state. Mecklenburg, Alamance, Gaston and Cabarrus Counties have already entered into 287g Memorandums of Agreement (MOAs) with ICE.
 
 