SEN. DOLE REINTRODUCES LUMBEE RECOGNITION ACT
  Sen. Elizabeth Dole today reintroduced the Lumbee Recognition Act to provide full federal recognition to the Lumbee Indian Tribe. Sens. Richard Burr (R-N.C.) and Daniel Inouye (D-Hawaii) are original cosponsors of Dole's bill.  
   "I am proud to take up this fight alongside the Lumbees and to advocate for the recognition they rightfully deserve," said Dole. "The Lumbee Tribe has been unfairly deprived full federal recognition for more than a century. As a result, the tribe has been denied the education, health care and economic development opportunities that would significantly benefit not just the tribe, but also the regional economy." 
   "For me, this issue has always been about fairness. The Lumbees have waited more than 50 years to receive the federal recognition they deserve," said Burr. "I will continue to work with the Lumbees to resolve this issue." 
   Dole initially introduced the Lumbee recognition bill in February 2003 as her very first piece of legislation, and she reintroduced the bill in the 109th Congress. In both the 108th and 109th Congresses, Dole successfully pushed for Senate Committee on Indian Affairs approval of her bill. 
   "Simply put, this is about righting a wrong?and allowing future generations of Lumbees to benefit from the recognition for which their ancestors have fought tirelessly," said Dole. 
   Background 
   North Carolina formally recognized the tribe in 1885, and three years later, in 1888, the tribe began what has become a very long quest for recognition from the federal government. Over the years, many bills were introduced in Congress to provide the Lumbees with federal recognition, but these bills were never acted upon or were passed by only one chamber. Finally, in 1956, Congress passed the Lumbee Act, but there was a caveat: the Lumbees were denied the full benefits that every other federally recognized tribe receives. 
   Federal recognition would make critical funding and benefits available to the 55,000 Lumbees, most of whom live in and around Robeson County, North Carolina. The Lumbee Tribe is the largest American Indian tribe east of the Mississippi River and the largest non-federally recognized tribe in the United States.
 
 