SEN. DOLE, COLLEAGUES INTRODUCE BIPARTISAN BILL TO ADDRESS CLIMATE CHANGE
  U.S. Sen. Elizabeth Dole today joined Sens. Joseph Lieberman (ID-Conn.) and John Warner (R-Va.) in introducing America's Climate Security Act (ACSA). The bill uses a market-driven approach - not big government and tax increases - to make our air cleaner. Dole's office has worked for several months to help craft the bill. 
   ACSA encourages American businesses to take leadership and come up with new technologies to reduce their emissions, and it helps lead to alternative sources of energy, thereby reducing our dependence on oil from unstable parts of the world. The Act also provides businesses with certainty to make investments for the future. Additionally, this bill offers new economic opportunities for all businesses, especially the agriculture sector, by rewarding U.S. farmers for practices that reduce greenhouse gas emissions.  
   "North Carolina has many natural treasures, from our mountains to our coast, and we must do our part to make our air cleaner and be good stewards of the earth for future generations," said Dole. "The solution to the serious problem of climate change is not inaction. This is a responsible, market-driven approach that strengthens our economy, competitiveness and security." 
   "This is a bipartisan breakthrough on global warming that takes us a giant step closer to a historic vote in the United States Senate," said Larry Schweiger, President and CEO, National Wildlife Federation. I commend Senator Lieberman and Senator Warner for drafting a strong bill to protect wildlife from global warming. And I commend Senator Dole for cosponsoring the legislation and adding her support to the call for action after a careful and thoughtful review of the issues." 
   "The momentum has never been greater and the path forward has never been clearer," said Steve Cochran, National Climate Campaign Director, Environmental Defense. "Senator Dole deserves real credit for recognizing the need for action and bringing her vital support to an approach that promises to deliver environmental and economic results." 
   ACSA is projected to reduce total U.S. greenhouse gas emissions by as much as 19 percent below the 2005 level in 2020 and by as much as 63 percent below the 2005 level in 2050. ACSA controls compliance costs by allowing companies to trade, save, and borrow emission allowances, and by allowing them to generate credits when they induce non-covered businesses, farms, and others to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions or capture and store greenhouse gases. 
   The Act invests set-aside emissions credits and money raised by the auction of such allowances in advancing several important public policies, including, but not limited to: 
   * Deploying advanced technologies and practices for reducing emissions; 
   * Protecting low- and middle-income Americans from higher energy costs; 
   * Keeping good jobs in the United States; and 
   * Mitigating the negative impacts of any unavoidable global warming on low- and middle-income Americans and wildlife. 
   In July 2007, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) found that if the U.S. achieves emissions reductions of the levels mandated by ACSA, then - making conservative assumptions about the pace of emissions reductions in the rest of the world - the concentration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere will remain below 500 parts per million (ppm) at the end of this century. According to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, keeping the concentration below 500 ppm will avoid a high risk of global warming. 
   Other cosponsors of ACSA are Sens. Norm Coleman (R-Minn.), Tom Harkin (D-Iowa), Benjamin Cardin (D-Md.), Susan Collins (R-Maine) and Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.).
 
 