SEN. DOLE: STRENGTHENING NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM IS IMPORTANT FOR NORTH CAROLINA
  Sen. Elizabeth Dole, a member of the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs, today expressed her support for strengthening and securing the National Flood Insurance Program in the wake of recent hurricanes. Congress is currently considering reforms to the program, which covers 147,000 North Carolina homes. North Carolina has been affecting in recent years by flooding caused from hurricanes such as Frances, Ivan, Isabel, and most recently Ophelia.  
   Full text of Senator Dole's Remarks are below: 
   Thank you, Chairman Shelby, I am particularly pleased that we are examining the future of the national flood insurance program this morning. Folks in North Carolina know that I have been a strong advocate of this program - which covers approximately 147,000 homes in our state. And North Carolina has certainly felt the impact of flooding in the wake of powerful hurricanes such as Isabel, Frances, and Ivan. And just last month, Ophelia hit the coast - resulting in flooding as well. 
   Indeed, no one could have foreseen the strains that hurricanes Katrina and Rita would place on the program. As of September, FEMA has $3.5 billion in borrowing authority to help pay the claims resulting from these two hurricanes. But according to FEMA, we now expect between $15 and $25 billion in claims. This makes it clear that we are going to again need to raise the borrowing authority for the program - and we should not hesitate to do so. 
   In the aftermath of these most recent tragedies, we must redouble our efforts to make certain that - wherever possible - homes are rebuilt stronger, higher and safer than before to prevent repetitive losses and save lives in the future. In my eight years as President of the American Red Cross, we took a leadership role and worked as a full partner in FEMA's efforts to develop and implement a National Mitigation Strategy, and we also cosponsored FEMA's biennial National Mitigation Conferences. We appointed the first ever Assistant Director for Mitigation who worked closely with FEMA's Deputy Federal Coordinating Officer for Mitigation and advocated for these policies and actions at the local, state, regional and national levels. After all, mitigation not only prevents or greatly minimizes damage, mitigation also saves lives! Now more than ever we must ensure that this important work on mitigation is emphasized as we rebuild and that it continues in the areas most vulnerable to flood loss across the nation. 
   Finally, mapping plays an integral role in mitigation efforts. Last year's reauthorization included nearly $1.5 billion in flood map modernization funding through 2008. These maps help determine the exact size of our flood planes and are essential to proper planning for our communities. The government has committed to a 50/50 partnership with the states and it is essential that this effort continues. I am proud that North Carolina has one of the most advanced mapping programs underway. 
   I look forward to continuing our work on these issues as our recovery efforts continue. Families certainly deserve the security and peace of mind that the national flood insurance program provides. 
   Thank you.
   Contact: Lindsay Taylor, 202/224-6342.
 
 