SEN. DOLE COSPONSORS LEGISLATION TO PROVIDE JOB TRAINING, COMBAT HUNGER
  Sen. Elizabeth Dole today joined Sens. Frank Lautenberg and Blanche Lincoln to introduce bipartisan legislation to combat hunger through job training and food rescue. The Food Employment Empowerment and Development (FEED) Act would combine food rescue with job training programs, teaching unemployed and homeless adults the skills needed to work in the food service industry.  
   "Hunger is a battle that continues to be waged in homes and on streets around America, and one that has been of great importance to me, particularly since my time at the American Red Cross," said Dole. "The recent hurricanes devastated so many lives, underscoring the troubling levels of poverty in too many areas in our country. This legislation is an important step toward providing folks who are greatly in need with food that would otherwise go to waste." 
   The FEED Act provides for the recovery of unserved or unused food from food service businesses and converts the donated food into balanced meals for hungry people. Programs funded by the FEED Act would distribute donated food to homeless shelters, community youth centers, after-school programs, and senior citizen programs. Under this legislation, unemployed and underemployed individuals, including people from shelters, halfway houses, and work release programs, would be trained in culinary skills that can lead to employment. 
   Background 
   According to the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) more than 34 million people in our country are either going hungry or living on the edge of hunger. Each year 20 percent of the food produced in this country never reaches a consumer's table. The USDA also estimates that close to 96 billion pounds of edible, prepared and perishable food is thrown away every year in the United States. 
   Hunger has been one of Senator Dole's top priorities in the Senate and was the topic of her very first floor speech.
   Contact: Paula Noble, 919/856-4630.
 
 