BRAC COMMISSION VOTES ON ADDITIONAL CLOSURES
  Sen. Elizabeth Dole today made the following statement regarding the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission's vote today to add additional installations to the closure list.  
   "Today was another good day for North Carolina, because the Commission voted to examine all possible options for basing jet squadrons and to further examine the basing of C-130s at Pope Air Force Base. In light of the vote not to realign Oceana Naval Air Station in Virginia to Moody Air Force Base in Georgia, I believe North Carolina is the obvious choice to gain aircraft. In the short term, we would gain from having squadrons moved to Cherry Point and in the long term we stand to gain by hosting a new 21st century master jet base. This would further enhance North Carolina's robust military presence - and we welcome that opportunity. I stand ready to assist our local communities in any way that they may be affected by any transition. 
   "I am pleased the Commission continues to recognize the strength of North Carolina's military bases. I believe the Commission very much heard the key points that were made during the regional hearing in Charlotte last month. I have been concerned about the proposal to shut down the 43rd Airlift Wing and transfer the installation and the airfield functions to the Army. My belief is that Bragg/Pope is currently a well-functioning joint base and the current synergies that are enjoyed should not be dismantled. It is obvious from the Commission's deliberations today that confusion still exists about how the Defense Department's proposal would work, which proves our point that the DoD's recommendations are flawed and should be reconsidered. I look forward to a continued dialogue to clarify these issues with the Commission as the process moves forward." 
   Background 
   Dole's office has been facilitating meetings between the appropriate BRAC staff and representatives of Pope Air Force Base and Naval Air Station Cherry Point during the past week. Dole's office also facilitated the regional BRAC hearing in Charlotte on June 28, 2005. Dole's office is currently working to facilitate a meeting between BRAC staff and representatives of the Army Research Office in Durham. 
   The installations added to the list today will be visited by members of the BRAC Commission and a public hearing will be held prior to the final recommendation, which is due to the President no later than September 8, 2005.
   Contact: Lindsay Taylor, 202/224-6342.
 
 