SEN. DOLE CALLS FOR ADDITIONAL OLF PUBLIC HEARING IN CHARLOTTE
  Sen. Elizabeth Dole today called on the Secretary of the Navy to hold an additional public hearing in Charlotte on the Navy's proposed outlying landing field (OLF) in Washington and Beaufort Counties so that more North Carolinians have the opportunity to register their views. The Navy has scheduled six public hearings, which start today, March 19, through April 4, 2007, in Hyde, Bertie, Perquimans, Craven, Beaufort and Washington counties.  
   Below are excerpts from Dole's letter to the Navy Secretary, Dr. Donald Winter: 
   "As you are no doubt aware, while North Carolina is a strongly pro-military state, the proposed Washington County OLF site is located in one of our state's most treasured areas, beloved by many North Carolinians for its natural beauty and tranquility. For that reason, the Navy's proposed OLF has attracted the attention of residents from all corners of North Carolina. 
   "I therefore ask that you hold an additional public hearing in Charlotte, North Carolina, which is an accessible location for many of the concerned citizens who live in the western and central parts of our state. The hearings held in eastern North Carolina are critically important, but it is also appropriate that other concerned North Carolinians have sufficient opportunity to attend and participate in a public hearing on this issue." 
   Background 
   North Carolinians interested in registering their opinion on the OLF with the Navy may provide written comments or give oral statements to the Navy at public hearings. For a complete list of dates and locations, visit www.olfseis.com and click on the "public hearings" section. Citizens also may mail or fax written comments to: 
   Commander, Naval Facilities Engineering Command Atlantic 
  Attn: OLF SEIS Project Manager, Code EV21 
  6506 Hampton Blvd., Norfolk, VA 23508-1278 
  (757) 322-4894 (fax to the attention of OLF SEIS Project Manager, Code EV21) 
   Note: All comments must be received or postmarked by April 24, 2007.
 
 