SEN. DOLE: LUMBEE TRIBE MUST BE RECOGNIZED BY AN ACT OF CONGRESS
  U.S. Sen. Elizabeth Dole today continued her efforts for full federal recognition of the Lumbee Tribe at a Senate Indian Affairs Committee hearing on the process of federal recognition of Indian tribes. Dole had pushed for a hearing, and today's hearing allowed the Lumbee to bring attention to their quest for recognition and to emphasize the truly unique situation they face, being ineligible for recognition through the Bureau of Indian Affairs process. 
   Dole and her staff continue to work closely with a bipartisan group of Lumbee supporters - including Rep. Mike McIntyre, Gov. Mike Easley and Sen. Richard Burr - with the goal of advancing her legislation to provide the tribe full federal recognition.  
   Below are Dole's remarks as delivered: 
   "Thank you, Mr. Chairman for holding this hearing and for this opportunity to introduce my friend, Lumbee Tribal Chairman Jimmy Goins, to the Committee. I have been proud to work with Chairman Goins over the years on our shared goal - full federal recognition for the Lumbee Tribe. 
   "It is apparent that Chairman Goins is driven by his strong desire to serve - his fellow Lumbee Tribe members, his country, and his family. He was awarded the Purple Heart for his distinguished service and sacrifice in Vietnam. A man of faith, he teaches Sunday school and serves as a Trustee, Board Member and Steward at Union Chapel Holiness Methodist Church. And he is dedicated to his wife Diane, three daughters and five grandchildren. 
   "Chairman Goins has long been a leader for the Lumbee Tribe and its quest for federal recognition. As a member of the Tribal Council, he oversaw the Federal Recognition Committee, and as the Chairman of the Tribe, he has traveled across North Carolina and to Washington to educate policymakers on the importance of federal recognition, not only to the Lumbee but also the southeastern region of North Carolina where most of the tribe's 55,000 members reside. In fact, since my arrival in the Senate in 2003, this is the fourth hearing Chairman Goins has journeyed to Washington to attend. 
   "The Lumbee Recognition Act was the very first bill that I introduced as a United States Senator. I have continued to champion this cause, alongside Chairman Goins and other Lumbee leaders and allies, because I passionately believe that Congress must act to provide the tribe full federal recognition. It's a matter of fairness. 
   "North Carolina formally recognized the tribe in 1885, and three years later, in 1888, the tribe began its quest for federal recognition. In 1956, Congress finally passed legislation recognizing the tribe ?but it included a terribly unfair caveat: the Lumbee were denied the benefits that every other federally recognized tribe receives. 
   "Moreover, the 1956 Lumbee Act actually prohibits the tribe from going through the Bureau of Indian Affairs process for full recognition. As the law now stands, the Lumbee Tribe can only be recognized by an act of Congress. Just one other tribe, the Tiwas of Texas, faced a similarly unfair situation following the passage of a comparable bill in 1965. But in 1987, Congress enacted special legislation to recognize them. This makes the Lumbee the only tribe in the country still trapped in this limbo. 
   "The BIA process is reserved for tribes whose legitimacy must be established. But the Lumbee's legitimacy has been established - time and time again - in studies by the U.S. Department of the Interior, beginning as early as 1912, then again in 1914, and yet again in 1933. Furthermore, the Government Accountability Office has documented that getting through the BIA is an arduous and lengthy process as the chairman has pointed out. I welcome the attention the Committee is giving this problem; however, it is clear that even if the Lumbee could legally go through the BIA, this would only impose yet another delay. 
   "Earlier this year, the Lumbee cleared a significant hurdle - the House passed the Lumbee recognition bill sponsored by Congressman Mike McIntyre, who is here with us this morning. It's been my joy to work with Mike over these many years. The Lumbee are now "this" close securing the recognition for which they and their ancestors have tirelessly fought. The ball is in the Senate's court, and now is the time for us to do what is fair and right. The last two Congresses, this Committee has approved my Lumbee recognition bill, and I strongly urge again that this committee report this bill to the full Senate. 
   "The Lumbee deserve better than a partial nod to their legitimacy - they deserve full recognition, and the time is now. And I thank you Mr. Chairman, for the opportunity to be here."
 
 