SEN. DOLE EXPRESSES SUPPORT FOR NORTH CAROLINA NATIVE TO BE AMBASSADOR TO EUROPEAN UNION
  Sen. Elizabeth Dole today made the following statement before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee in support of the nomination of C. Boyden Gray to be Ambassador to the European Union.  
   Mr. Gray is a graduate of the University of North Carolina (J.D. 1968, first in class), where he served as Editor-in-Chief of the UNC Law Review. In addition, Mr. Gray is the recipient of the Presidential Citizens Medal and the Distinguished Alumnus Award of the University of North Carolina Law School. Gray is a native of Winston-Salem, North Carolina. 
   Senator Dole's Opening Statement below: 
   Mr. Chairman, it is a great privilege to introduce C. Boyden Gray, who has been nominated by President Bush to serve as the United States Ambassador to the European Union. I'm honored to come before this committee to enthusiastically express my support for this nomination. Boyden is not only my treasured friend, he is also one of the finest individuals to hail from the great state of North Carolina. He is, indeed, well qualified for this important post and I am confident he will serve with great distinction as the primary liaison between the United States and our European friends. 
   If confirmed as the U.S. permanent representative to the European Union, Boyden Gray would be our key diplomat on the ground in Brussels, responsible for promoting and protecting United States interests in the region. Our relationship with the European Union has become evermore important to the United States. Earlier this year, George W. Bush became the first U.S. President to make an official visit to the European Union, underscoring the EU's growing role in defining the transatlantic relationship. Boyden will be on the forefront of this relationship, working with leaders from all 25 European Union member states on critical issues from trade and human rights to regional security and the Global War on Terror. 
   Boyden Gray possesses the critical diplomatic and leadership skills needed to succeed in this important position. Those of us who have watched Boyden over the years know that he is someone who works well with people on opposite ends of an issue and finds areas of commonality that all sides can embrace. Members of this committee will remember the vital role he played in bringing together a bipartisan consensus that led to the enactment of the Americans with Disabilities Act and the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990. Boyden is a superb advocate, a person who can be very persuasive without being overbearing. This skill will serve him well in his new position. 
   Boyden has a most impressive academic record and has had a brilliant legal career. He graduated magna cum laude in 1964 from Harvard University. Returning home to North Carolina, he attended law school at the University of North Carolina, where he served as editor in chief of the North Carolina Law Review and graduated first in his class. He then obtained one of the most prestigious assignments a young lawyer can aspire to - a clerkship with the Chief Justice of the United States, then Earl Warren. 
   Boyden joined Wilmer, Cutler and Pickering in 1969 and became partner in 1976. In 1981 he left the firm to serve as Legal Counsel to Vice President George H.W. Bush, who, eight years later in his first presidential appointment, named Boyden, White House Counsel. He served in that capacity until 1993. 
   Boyden Gray has been described as "a man of great integrity with a sharp and open mind, an enormous drive to excel, a great capacity for work, little pretension, and a preference for conciliation over confrontation." I wholeheartedly agree with this description. In fact, I cannot find better words to describe the character and qualities necessary for a first-rate United States ambassador. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
   Contact: Lindsay Taylor, 202/224-6342.
 
 