SEN. DOLE CONTINUES TO PUSH INCREASE IN COMBAT DEATH BENEFIT
  Sen. Elizabeth Dole today reaffirmed her commitment to increasing the death gratuity for service men and women killed in action. The Senate Armed Services Committee, on which Sen. Dole serves, held a hearing this morning highlighting the importance of this issue.  
   "We must do everything possible to show our military men and women and their families how much we appreciate and honor their service," said Senator Dole. "When a soldier pays the ultimate sacrifice, no amount of money can ease the grief of his or her family, but a significant increase in the benefits paid to our military families sends a strong message of our gratitude and support." 
   Last week, Senator Dole announced that she is cosponsoring two bills that will increase the death gratuity. She joined Senator George Allen (R-Virginia) as a cosponsor of the Honoring Our Fallen Soldiers and Families Act of 2005, which will increase the death gratuity for members of the armed services killed in action to $100,000 from $12,420. This legislation will make the benefit retroactive to October 1, 2001 to cover those killed while deployed in Operation Iraqi Freedom and Operation Enduring Freedom in Afghanistan. 
   Senator Dole also joined Senators Jeff Sessions (R-Alabama) and Joe Lieberman (D-Connecticut) as a cosponsor of the HEROES Act of 2005 (Honoring Every Requirement Of Exemplary Service). In addition to proposing a retroactive increase of the death gratuity to $100,000, this legislation also will increase the maximum coverage of Servicemen's Group Life Insurance from $250,000 to $400,000. The bill will require the military to provide the first $150,000 of coverage when the soldier is deployed to a combat zone and will result in a reduction of the service member's monthly premium while he or she is deployed. 
   Senator Dole also has raised the issue of improving assistance to servicemen and women who are seriously injured and their families. With the improvements in body armor and heroic efforts of military medical teams both in theater and at home, more soldiers are surviving but often with debilitating wounds. Today the Department of Defense launched a new operations center that will integrate the programs currently sponsored by various military and government services, making it easier for these individuals to access the medical, counseling, educational, and financial services they need and deserve. 
   "We are a strong, prosperous nation, a nation that honors and respects our sons and daughters in the Armed Services," said Senator Dole. "We can and must do better to provide for our injured and fallen heroes and their families."
   Contact: Lindsay Taylor, 202/224-7905.
 
 