SEN. DOLE PRESSES STATE DEPARTMENT TO REMEDY PASSPORT APPLICATION BACKLOG
  Sen. Elizabeth Dole is calling on the State Department to alleviate the long processing delays many constituents are encountering when applying for passports. The Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative (WHTI), which requires passports for travel to Canada, Mexico, Bermuda and the Caribbean, has generated a backlog of unprocessed passport requests, forcing many people to cancel long-held travel plans or incur significant expenses to change their arrangements because they are not receiving their passports on time.  
   "It is unacceptable that American citizens are missing trips because the State Department did not fully anticipate the increase in passport applications and take appropriate action to increase processing resources," wrote Dole and 55 of her colleagues in a letter to Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice. 
   WHTI requirements for air travel took effect on January 23, 2007, as part of the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004. The State Department recently announced that it would suspend the WHTI requirement for air travel until September 30, 2007; however, Dole and her colleagues fear that constituents planning travel to other parts of the globe still will be forced to cancel their trips due to the current backlog of passport requests. The senators also anticipate that problems will recur when the WHTI suspension expires. 
   In their letter to Rice, Dole and her colleagues also expressed disappointment that the State Department is asking congressional offices to provide constituents' credit card information when making inquiries on their behalf because the Department intends to charge for expediting passport processing and delivery. 
   "Neither charge would be necessary if the Department were processing the original applications in a timely manner," wrote Dole and her colleagues. "It seems grossly unfair to charge American taxpayers extra for remedying problems that were caused by the government itself." 
   Dole and her colleagues are calling on the State Department to: 
   * Stop charging fees for expediting and delivering passports whose issuance is delayed by the Department's failure to plan for the increased volume of passport applications; 
   * Take the steps necessary to return application processing time to normal; and 
   * Implement a plan to ensure that similar problems do no recur when the WHTI air travel requirements take effect and share the plan with Congress. 
   Background:
   In May, Dole wrote to Maura Ann Harty, Assistant Secretary of the Bureau of Consular Affairs in the State Department, expressing concerns about the passport processing delays. She asked Harty to identify additional resources that are needed to meet current and future demands and to keep her apprised of the steps planned to address the current backlog of passport applications.
 
 