SEN. DOLE VOICES SUPPORT OF TWO N.C. NOMINEES FOR U.S. DISTRICT JUDGESHIPS
  Sen. Elizabeth Dole today introduced to the Senate Judiciary Committee two nominees for district judgeships in North Carolina, William Osteen, Jr. for the Middle District and Martin Reidinger for the Western District. Below are Dole's remarks: 
   Thank you, Chairwoman Feinstein, for holding today's hearing. It is my great privilege to be here today and to introduce two outstanding North Carolinians who are nominees for district judgeships in my home state - William Osteen, Jr. for the Middle District and Martin Reidinger for the Western District.  
   Both Bill and Martin have amassed impressive records of accomplishment in their legal careers. I am proud to have recommended them to President Bush?even though they both went to the University of North Carolina for their undergraduate and law degrees...a fact this Duke alumna just had to overlook! 
   Bill Osteen has deep roots in North Carolina, receiving his education in our state, as I mentioned, and practicing law there for the past two decades. In 2004 and 2005, Business North Carolina included him in its Legal Elite - the cream of the crop, selected not by the editors of the magazine, but by State Bar colleagues. 
   Bill has broad experience in both criminal and civil litigation. As we all know, criminal cases make up a substantial and increasingly large portion of a federal district judge's docket, and Bill is well equipped to handle this important aspect of the job. He estimates that he has served as the counsel of record in more than 100 federal criminal cases. Bill also knows his way around a courtroom. In an age when most cases are resolved through settlement or plea agreement, Bill has taken over 30 cases to trial. On the strength of this experience, I have no doubt that Bill will be able to make the transition to district judge without missing a beat. 
   In addition to a distinguished professional life, Bill also has a very full personal life. He is a dedicated family man to his wife Elizabeth and their two children, Anne Bennett and Bill, and he is a man of faith, actively involved in the First Presbyterian Church of Greensboro. It is also notable that Bill has been nominated to succeed his father to this seat. Bill's father, William Osteen, Sr., has served the Middle District with great distinction, and I know that he must be proud of his son's many accomplishments. It is a rare and remarkable feat that a son has the opportunity to serve in his father's onetime place on the bench, and I am honored to tout Bill's many qualifications here today. 
   I am also honored to introduce Martin Reidinger, the president's nominee for the Western District of North Carolina. Martin too is a man of significant professional achievement. For the past 23 years, he has practiced law in Asheville with Adams Hendon Carson Crow & Saenger. Martin, I understand that you drove all the way from the beautiful - and probably a lot cooler - mountains of Asheville to muggy Washington to be with us today. Folks, that's nearly 500 miles! And I am glad to see some of your strongest supporters - your wife Patti and the rest of your family. 
   Martin has vast civil litigation experience, handling matters running the gamut from employment law to land disputes. He frequently appears in federal courts and has litigated to a verdict or judgment nearly 200 cases over the past two decades. In addition, Martin has served as the president and secretary/treasurer of the Buncombe County Bar Association, and he currently sits on the Board of Directors for Pisgah Legal Services, which provides free, civil legal services to low-income people who are unable to afford an attorney. In fact, in 2004, Martin accepted the North Carolina State Bar's Outstanding Pro Bono Services Award for his law firm's commitment to giving back to their community. 
   Martin and Bill come to this committee with impeccable credentials, and I am confident that they both would serve with great distinction as members of the federal judiciary. Both have earned the respect of their colleagues and peers - many of whom have contacted me to voice support for their nominations. It is my great privilege to give them my strongest endorsement. 
   Thank you again for holding this hearing for two of North Carolina's most talented and capable legal minds. Currently our state has four district court vacancies, so I urge this committee to act with due speed on these nominations. Thank you.
 
 