SEN. DOLE RECOGNIZED FOR WORK FOR NORTH CAROLINA HOSPITALS
  U.S. Sen. Elizabeth Dole is being recognized by the North Carolina Hospital Association (NCHA) for her leadership in the Senate to secure a moratorium on a Medicaid policy change, which prevented North Carolina hospitals from losing $330 million last year. Dole will receive the first "Hospital Champion" award at the NCHA's Winter Meeting this afternoon.
   The federal government reimburses states for a share of the costs of providing health care for low-income and uninsured patients. Last year, however, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) issued a rule change that would impose cost limits for public health care providers, thus resulting in many North Carolina hospitals losing millions of dollars annually and eliminating the safety net for uninsured and low-income patients. Dole succeeded in securing a one-year moratorium on this rule change, and she recently introduced bipartisan legislation with 24 cosponsors that will extend this moratorium, which is set to expire in May 2008, for another year. 
   "The proposed Medicaid rule change would present significant and costly challenges for North Carolina hospitals, to the detriment of not just Medicaid patients, but entire communities," said Dole. "With fewer federal matching dollars and no time to adequately plan for such a change, hospitals tell me they will have to reduce services, attempt greater cost-shifting, cut jobs, and possibly require their local government to raise taxes. I am proud to support our state's hospitals and the patients who rely on them, and I will continue my strongest efforts to extend this critical moratorium."
   "Sen. Dole is consistently out front on issues concerning the health of people in our state," said NCHA President Bill Pully. "Her efforts during the past year have helped ensure access to care for many in North Carolina who otherwise might have been forced to travel outside their communities to receive care. Without Sen. Dole's leadership and success, hospitals in our state would have faced not only a 20 percent cut in Medicaid funding but also, for some, uncertain futures. Sen. Dole's actions preserved many North Carolina health care jobs and protected most communities in our state from significant negative economic impacts."
   "Many of our elected leaders have come to the aid of hospitals but few have taken as decisive, timely and productive action on hospitals' behalf as has Sen. Dole in the past year," said Pully. "It is our pleasure to honor her as the first Hospital Champion."
   According to NCHA estimates, health insurance premiums would increase by as much as four percent if the Medicaid regulation took effect and the hospitals are forced to pass the $330 million cost on to patients with health insurance. If hospitals were not able to pass those costs on to patients with health insurance, they would be forced to eliminate nearly 5,000 jobs.
   Background
   In early 2007, Dole, along with Sen. Richard Durbin (D-Ill.), led a successful effort to pass a one-year moratorium on the proposed Medicaid policy change. Without the moratorium, 43 of the 45 North Carolina hospitals that currently have "public" status would have lost that designation and a total of $330 million in federal funding. In December 2007, Dole joined Sen. Jeff Bingaman (D-N.M.) in introducing bipartisan legislation that would extend the moratorium by one year.
 
 