SEN. DOLE ISSUES STATEMENT ON EARTH DAY
  U.S. Sen. Elizabeth Dole today submitted the following statement to the Congressional Record: 
   "Mr. President, I rise today in support of Earth Day. Thirty-eight years ago, 20 million people from across our country celebrated Earth Day for the first time. This has since become an important annual tradition, not only in America, but across the globe. What started as a day to voice concerns over smog, litter and dirty rivers is now a global movement to clean our air, land, and water for future generations.
   "I am pleased that we have found many common sense solutions to difficult environmental problems since the first Earth Day in 1970. For example, in 1978 we banned chlorofluorocarbons in aerosol cans because of their devastating affect on the ozone layer. In 1990 we passed the Clean Air Act Amendments to stop acid rain. And in 2003 we passed the Clear Skies legislation to reduce sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide that pollute our air. Although all of these accomplishments make sense to us today, it wasn't always easy to convince leaders and even the public that these actions were essential to protect our environment.
   "Some folks had concerns about the actual effects of the legislation, while others had concerns about the economic costs. Their concerns are not unlike the concerns of some in the current debate about global climate change. A number of my colleagues and I support a cap and trade system. But no matter how we deal with climate change we know that this will be a complex and vigorous debate. The discussions about the impact and costs are legitimate debates to be had. But I firmly believe that inaction is not an answer to this growing crisis.
   "On this Earth Day, which is celebrated by our Federal, State, and local governments; grassroots organizations; citizens of North Carolina, the United States, and the rest of the world, we set out a vision of how things can be. We can be energy independent and secure, we can de-carbonize our electric generation, and we can wean ourselves off foreign oil. We can leave the cause of this day - the Earth - cleaner and more vibrant. It will not be easy, but we as a nation can and must lead the way.
   "Thank you Mr. President."
 
 