SEN. DOLE URGES OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET TO HELP COMMUNITIES PREPARE FOR NEW STUDENTS RESULTING FROM BASE REALIGNMENT AND CLOSURE
  Sen. Elizabeth Dole has called on the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) to financially assist some local military communities as they prepare for an influx of school children that will result from the 2005 Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) round. The Fort Bragg and Pope Air Force Base BRAC Regional Task Force predicts that in the next four years, more than 3,600 school-aged military dependents will arrive in the 11 counties surrounding Fort Bragg and Pope AFB.  
   In a December 21 letter to OMB Director Rob Portman, Dole joined Senators Saxby Chambliss, Sam Brownback, James Inhofe, Johnny Isakson, Barbara Mikulski, Pat Roberts, Ken Salazar and Jim Talent in asking the OMB to allocate funds in the President's fiscal year 2008 budget to help some military communities build the additional infrastructure needed to accommodate high volumes of new students. 
   Dole and her colleagues pointed out that while BRAC brings growth and benefits to many military communities, it also can present significant challenges. 
   "Local communities are in the process of determining their requirements for additional classroom space, and construction costs associated with such growth have generally been absorbed locally," wrote Dole and her colleagues. "However, these communities are finding themselves in a 'perfect storm' of military growth as a result of the federal government's actions. For this reason, we believe an initial infusion of funding is necessary and appropriate to allow impacted school systems to meet construction costs that will be incurred before revenue from local taxes, bond efforts and state support can be realized. This funding will provide school systems with a stable start as they work to do their best for all students, both military and non-military, as all students will feel the burden of inadequate educational facilities if prompt action is not taken." 
   "I was very proud to advocate for all of our North Carolina installations during the 2005 BRAC process," said Dole. "The expansion of Fort Bragg resulting from the BRAC round not only solidifies the base's status as a critical component of our national security, but it also presents tremendous economic opportunity for the surrounding region. As a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, I remain committed to assisting our local communities throughout the BRAC implementation."
 
 