SENATE APPROVES SEN. DOLE'S PREDATORY LENDING MEASURE IN FINAL DEFENSE BILL
  The U.S. Senate late Wednesday night approved the fiscal year 2006 National Defense Authorization Act, which authorizes military activities for the U.S. Department of Defense, funding for military construction, and other related defense programs. The bill, which now goes to the president for his signature, includes an amendment authored by Sen. Elizabeth Dole to help protect military families from predatory lending.  
   Dole's amendment requires the Department of Defense, in consultation with the Treasury Department, the Federal Reserve, the FDIC, and representatives of military charity and consumer organizations to provide to Congress within 90 days a report that includes: 
   * An assessment of how predatory lending is being directed at members of the armed services; 
   * A list of current and future programs to prevent or eliminate predatory lending to service members; including education on predatory lending for service members and their families; and 
   * Specific legislative and executive branch actions that should be undertaken to further address this problem. 
   "I look forward to reviewing the findings of the Departments of Defense, Treasury, and others taking a hard look at this issue," said Dole. "I am confident this report will shed greater light on the problem of predatory lenders targeting our military families and allow us find a solution to stop this egregious practice." 
   The Defense Authorization bill also includes a 3.1 percent pay raise for all military personnel, a provision banning detainee abuse, and $50 billion in supplemental funds for operations in Iraq, Afghanistan, and the War on Terror. 
   Background on Dole's Predatory Lending Amendment
  Many young troops, like many young people across the country, do not have a cushion of savings to use in an emergency, and most are not educated in financial management. Lending can be an alluring option for a young soldier to get cash fast and easy, but predatory lending practices can send an individual into a downward spiral of debt. 
   Predatory lending practices can also have serious ramifications for our military's operational readiness. Military conduct codes stress financial solvency, and a member with bad credit and mounting debt can face potentially career-ending disciplinary measures. 
   Dole's amendment has received support from the Military Coalition and the Fleet Reserve Association, as well as numerous consumer groups, including the Consumer Federation of America, which have praised the provision as "an important first step toward providing comprehensive protection." 
   Dole, the senior senator from North Carolina, is a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee.
 
 