SEN. DOLE: STAY COURSE IN IRAQ
  Sen. Elizabeth Dole, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today emphasized the need to stay the course in Iraq and in fighting the War on Terror. Sen. Dole's remarks came as the Committee prepares to hear testimony Thursday on U.S. military strategy and operations in Iraq. Witnesses will include Donald Rumsfeld, Secretary of Defense; General Richard Myers, Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff; General John Abizaid, Commander, United States Central Command; and General George Casey, Commanding General, Multi-National Force - Iraq.  
   Senator Dole: 
   The terrible events of September 11, 2001 were horrific proof that there are organized terrorist networks working to wreak havoc upon our daily lives. Since that tragic day, there have been no attacks on U.S. soil because we have been taking the fight to the enemy - in their backyard - not ours. 
   My heart and my prayers go out to the families who have lost loved ones in this brave mission, this mission that has spread freedom and democracy and liberated millions of people from oppression and tyranny. Their service and courage will be honored by generations of Iraqis and Americans in the future - and we must certainly honor them in the present by supporting their mission and seeing it fulfilled. 
   Some have asserted that our troops have simply done all that they can do - and this assertion is wrong. We have known from day one that this will be a long fight. This is a war unlike any we have ever seen. We have made tremendous advances, but there is much more to be done before throwing our hands up in the air. 
   Arbitrarily setting a timeline for withdrawing our troops emboldens the terrorists and sends the message that the United States has lost its resolve. This is the wrong message indeed. Our withdrawal timeline must be event-driven and not artificially tied to a calendar. If we set arbitrary timetables, we risk losing everything for which our gallant service members have fervently fought and sacrificed. 
   The progress of our efforts is evident. To date, we have trained more than 168,000 Iraqi security personnel who are proving their worth in the fight. Operation Lightening, consisting of Iraqi Army and police battalions and U.S. brigades, has significantly decreased the detonation of IEDs. 
   There are more than 2,400 reconstruction projects and more than 1,000 have been completed. Streets are lined with shops selling newspapers and books with varied opinions. There are 840 planned school projects throughout the country. To date, 171 of these projects are ongoing, and 580 are complete. There are now 160,000 more telephone subscribers than prior to Operation Iraqi Freedom and a cellular network exists. Improved infrastructure provides water and power to Iraqis, and the list goes on. 
   But most importantly, more than 8 million Iraqis, some walking for miles to stand in line for hours, putting themselves in harm's way, voted in the January election. The writing of a constitution is underway with a referendum on it expected in October and national elections in December. 
   This is the timeline we should be focused on, because ensuring a democratic government in Iraq that can provide security and defend the infrastructure of the country is critical to a stable Iraq and, ultimately, a peaceful Middle East that does not breed and harbor terrorism. I strongly support our mission, and I am confident that we will prevail.
 
 