SEN. DOLE WORKS TO MAKE ENERGY BILL BETTER FOR N.C.
  The U.S. Senate late last night passed an energy bill, which Sen. Elizabeth Dole worked to make better for North Carolina industries and consumers. Dole did not support the final bill; however, she did push for raising fuel economy standards and making other improvements to the bill. 
   "The overall energy legislation unfortunately was fundamentally flawed and rushed through the Senate, but I am pleased that we were able to win some key battles to make it a better bill," said Dole. "For example, with my strong support, we were able to raise the nation's fuel economy standards, which will lessen our dependence on foreign oil sources and reduce greenhouse gas emissions."
   Dole cosponsored the amendment to raise fuel economy standards, called CAFE (Corporate Average Fuel Economy), for cars and light trucks to 35 miles per gallon by model year 2020, an increase of 10 mpg over current standards.
   Dole also was a lead sponsor of an amendment to provide consumers protection against high food and fuel costs by providing a safeguard in the Renewable Fuel Standard - a mandate that relies heavily on corn-based ethanol. Livestock, dairy, poultry and other everyday food products rely on this same supply of corn.
   In addition, Dole joined with colleagues from coastal states to defeat an amendment that would have opened offshore areas near North Carolina to natural gas exploration. She also worked to block a measure that would have established a one-size-fits-all federal Renewable Portfolio Standard (RPS), which would have raised electricity costs in North Carolina, costing the state's consumers $12 billion by 2030. Finally, Dole helped stop a more than $28 billion tax increase that American drivers would have had to pay at the pump.
   "While this bill includes important energy efficiencies and conservation efforts that I support, the overall consequence of not addressing supply in this bill will not lead to lower energy prices for American consumers," said Dole. "We must continue to do more to increase domestic energy production, provide relief to consumers and lessen our dependence on foreign energy sources."
   Contact: 
 
 