SEN. DOLE APPLAUDS U.S. CUSTOMS AND BORDER PROTECTION ACTION ON ILLEGALLY TRANSSHIPPED TEXTILE PRODUCTS
  Sen. Elizabeth Dole today applauded news that U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) has seized $6 million over the last month in textile goods that were illegally transshipped in an effort to circumvent trade laws and regulations. This brings the total amount of seized textile goods in fiscal year 2006 to more than $20 million.  
   "This is a good indicator that textile enforcement is producing results," said Dole, who has been a strong voice for the hard-hit textile industry in North Carolina and has advocated for tough trade enforcement. "We have worked very hard to tackle the issues of textile transshipment, and while this encouraging news, we have to keep focused on strong enforcement and continue a dialogue with the Administration on the textile industry's needs." 
   "Along these lines, I am pleased that we were successful in pressing the Administration to agree to a firm deadline for hiring Customs agents to focus specifically on keeping out illegal textiles, as directed by Congress, because this was not being done. North Carolina should not be on the losing end when countries circumvent the rules. I will continue working to ensure that textile concerns are heard and addressed," Dole said. 
   Background:
   On March 7, 2005, Dole wrote Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff calling for the department to explain why money Congress appropriated specifically for hiring Customs agents assigned to keep out illegal textiles was not being used for that very purpose. Dole had helped secure congressional funding for the hiring of these agents but learned from textile industry reports that not a single new agent had been hired. 
   Chertoff informed Dole on May 3 that the department had begun hiring to fill 72 positions for textile transshipment enforcement operations. All 72 positions are to be filled by the end of December 2006, and will include overseas positions, import specialists, and audit, analytic and investigative staff.
   Contact: Katie Norman, 202/224-6342.
 
 