SEN. DOLE PRAISES BUSH FOR SIGNING LEGISLATION THAT INCLUDES TOBACCO BUYOUT
  Today President George W. Bush signed into law legislation that includes the tobacco buyout. The bill, the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, contains a $10.14 billion tobacco buyout, $3.9 billion of which is expected to go to North Carolina farmers and quota holders. 
   "Passing the tobacco buyout has been my top priority since arriving in the U.S. Senate," said Senator Dole. "This buyout is critically important for our farm families and rural communities, and I am thrilled that the President has signed it into law. In rural North Carolina and throughout the Southeast, folks can finally feel relieved that they no longer face an uncertain future in tobacco farming."
   The buyout provides payments of $7 per pound to quota holders and $3 per pound to growers. The payments, based on the 2002 quota level, would be distributed over a ten-year period. The funds required will be obtained from manufacturers and importers of all tobacco products sold in the United States. North Carolina farmers and quota holders are expected to receive $3.9 billion, the largest amount of any state. The economic ripple effect of this legislation is estimated to be $9 billion, according to N.C. State economist Blake Brown.
   In July 2003, Senator Dole, along with a bipartisan group of senators from tobacco-producing states, introduced the Tobacco Market Transition Act. This legislation served as the basis for what was passed in Congress and signed into law by the President.
   Background 
   Since 1997, quota has dropped almost 60 percent. Without the buyout, according to noted agriculture economist Blake Brown, tobacco farmers would have faced a minimum 33 percent cut in quotas for the 2005 crop year.
   The tobacco buyout was included in a corporate tax bill called the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 or the FSC-ETI (Foreign Sales Corporation - Export Trade Incentives) Act. The bill repeals European tariffs on many American-made products - many of which are made in North Carolina. And this legislation also cuts taxes for U.S. manufacturers.
   Contact: Brian Nick, 202/224-6342.
 
 