SEN. DOLE SUPPORTS FUNDING FOR NORTH CAROLINA MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, VA
  Sen. Elizabeth Dole today applauded Senate passage of the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies appropriations bill for fiscal year 2006 (H.R. 2528). The bill includes nearly $402.5 million for new military construction projects on North Carolina bases.  
   "North Carolina's military installations play an integral role in our national defense," said Dole. "The funding included in this bill for North Carolina further advances our position as a leading military state by providing for facilities at our bases that will enhance readiness and quality of life. 
   "I also am pleased this bill includes significant funding for Veterans Affairs. Our veterans have made enormous sacrifices to defend our freedoms, and we have a profound responsibility to support those who have served." 
   Bill Highlights 
   The bill provides more than $402.5 million for military construction projects at North Carolina installations, including: 
   More than $194.9 million for barracks, an elementary school, a courthouse, and various Special Operations Forces facilities at Fort Bragg 
   More than $106.4 million for projects and military housing at Camp Lejeune and MCAS Cherry Point 
   More than $6.8 million for an Aircraft Fire and Rescue Facility and upgrades to the Main Gate security at MCAS New River 
   More than $67 million for projects at Seymour Johnson Air Force Base, including nearly $50 million for housing 
   More than $16.6 million for military housing at Pope Air Force Base 
   More than $7 million for the North Carolina Army National Guard, including $5.858 million for a field maintenance shop in Lenoir and $1.154 million for additions and alterations to the readiness center in Tarboro for an Army division redesign study 
   $3.4 million for an Air National Guard vehicle maintenance complex at Charlotte-Douglas International Airport 
   The bill provides $70.71 billion for the Department of Veterans Affairs. Of this funding, $34.09 billion is discretionary funding and $23.31 billion is for Medical Services. 
   Note: The Senate version of the bill must be reconciled in conference with the House of Representatives-passed version of the bill. A final bill then will have to be approved by both the House and the Senate and go before the president for his signature.
   Contact: Lindsay Taylor, 202/224-6342.
 
 