SEN. DOLE RESPONDS TO PRESIDENT'S STATE OF THE UNION ADDRESS
  Sen. Elizabeth Dole tonight made the following statement regarding President Bush's State of the Union address:  
   "Tonight the president addressed the nation with confidence and resolve. I applaud his efforts to discuss issues where there is bipartisan common ground. The American people expect the president and Congress to work together to get things done, and as the president demonstrated tonight, this requires consensus building. At the same time, the president was right to stand his ground on issues such as confirming judicial nominees who will strictly interpret the Constitution, balancing the federal budget by 2012, and ensuring that our nation remains safe and secure. 
   "I was encouraged that the president reiterated his support for increasing the overall size and strength of our Army and Marine Corps. As more and more is being asked of our armed forces, our military must be large enough to defend America's interests. Additionally, I agree with the president that we must succeed in Iraq. The current security and political situation in Iraq is difficult, but a precipitous withdrawal would guarantee defeat and would have catastrophic implications for the security of our country and the stability of the Middle East region. 
   "Securing our borders also is critical to ensuring the safety of all Americans. I was pleased that the president has again called for stepping up border security, as this must be the centerpiece of any immigration reform. I look forward to seeing more details of what the president proposes; however, I continue to oppose amnesty proposals, as I simply cannot and will not support providing amnesty to those who have broken our laws and entered this nation illegally. 
   "With regard to domestic policy, I was pleased to hear the president address the issue of health care access and affordability. There is no question that we must strengthen our nation's health care system, and I look forward to learning more details about the president's proposal to reform how health insurance is taxed. 
   "In addition, I support the president's broad-based energy proposals that include calling for greater conservation, increasing the use of alternative fuels, stepping up domestic oil production and increasing federal support for research into new energy conservation and production technologies. Our nation's dependence on foreign oil is one of our leading national security challenges, and the president's proposals recognize and help address this major concern."
   Listen to Radio Clip at http://src.senate.gov/public/_files/radio/dolepostsou1_23_07.mp3
 
 