SENATE APPROPRIATIONS COMMITTEE APPROVES FUNDING FOR TEXTILES
  Sen. Elizabeth Dole today announced that the Senate Appropriations Committee has approved $18 million in funding for important North Carolina textile projects included in the Commerce-Justice-State Spending Bill for fiscal year 2006. The bill specifically includes $13 million for the National Textile Center, $3.5 million for Textile Clothing Technology (TC Squared), and $1.5 million for the Textile Marking System, an initiative also known as the "textile tracer." Sen. Dole pressed the committee to include North Carolina projects in the bill.  
   "I am so pleased the committee has recognized the importance of the North Carolina textile industry," said Senator Dole. "It is critical that we continue to support research and development initiatives and, most importantly, ways to stop the hemorrhaging of illegal textiles into the U.S. that puts our folks at a disadvantage. 
   "I have visited the National Textile Center at NC State and have seen first-hand the great work they are doing with regard to research and development. I support TC Squared's private-public partnership approach to doing research that is critical for keeping our textile industry competitive. I am also especially pleased that we have been able to take the concept of the textile tracer, which was given to me from a North Carolinian textile employee, and move towards making it a reality in the market place." 
   The bill is expected to be considered by the entire Senate in the coming weeks. Once approved by the full Senate, this version of the bill must be reconciled in conference with the House of Representatives-passed version of the bill. A final bill then will have to be approved by both the House and the Senate and go before the president for his signature. 
   Bill Highlights and Background 
   The National Textile Center is a consortium of schools across the country, including North Carolina State University, which works to develop new textile materials and technologies, training personnel, and conducts textile education research. ($13 million) 
   Textile Clothing Technology, or TC Squared, an organization funded both through the private sector and the Department of commerce, works to preserve the nearly 800,000 U.S. jobs in the fiber, fabric, and apparel complex. Located in Cary, NC, TC Squared will use its funding for research and technology development designed to enhance the domestic industry's overall competitiveness. ($3.5 million) 
   The Textile Marking System, also known as the Textile Tracer, is a system that will allow U.S. Customs officials to flag illegally smuggled textile goods. A textile worker in Vance County, NC gave Senator Dole the idea for the tracer, and she has made it a special priority as a Senator. ($1.5 million).
   Contact: Lindsay Taylor, 202/224-6342.
 
 