SEN. DOLE'S TEXTILE PRIORITY GETS FUNDING APPROVAL FROM SENATE COMMITTEE
  Sen. Elizabeth Dole today announced that the Senate Appropriations Committee has approved $1.5 million in funding for the Textile Marking System, also known as the "textile tracer." The tracer, one of Dole's top priorities, would give U.S. Customs agents an effective tool to curb illegal textile transshipments into the United States. The idea for the tracer was given to Senator Dole by a textile industry employee from Vance County, NC, and could save the textile industry billions of dollars each year.  
   "So many proud workers in North Carolina rely on this industry for their paychecks - that's why we must continue the progress we're making with the textile tracer," said Senator Dole. "I am thrilled we have been able to take this great idea from a North Carolina textile employee and move towards making it a reality in the market place." 
   Background: During her travels in the state, Dole heard repeated pleas from textile workers and executives about the industry's dire need for help. A textile manager passed the initial concept of the textile tracer to Dole, explaining that the government may already have access to the technology that could offer the ability to determine if goods are imported fraudulently. Dole worked with the Departments of Energy and Commerce and secured initial funding that was granted to allow the Oak Ridge Laboratory in Tennessee to continue studying different technologies. With the initial research phase completed, the funding included in the Senate Appropriations Commerce, Justice, and State spending bill would expand the tracer to continue finding a way to mark legal goods and to find illegally smuggled goods. 
   Once approved by the full Senate, this version of the bill must be reconciled in conference with the House of Representatives-passed version of the bill. A final bill then will have to be approved by both the House and the Senate and go before the President for his signature.
   Contact: Lindsay Taylor, 202/224-6342.
 
 