SENATE APPROVES SEN. DOLE AMENDMENT TO IMPROVE SCHOOL LUNCH AND BREAKFAST PROGRAMS FOR NEEDIEST CHILDREN
  Today the Senate approved an amendment offered by Sen. Elizabeth Dole to the congressional budget resolution that paves the way for future legislation to fund a pilot program aimed at improving the School Lunch and Breakfast programs. The five-state pilot program would eliminate the reduced price fee and expand free lunches and breakfasts to all of those children whose families' incomes are at or below 185 percent of poverty. This would harmonize the school meal income eligibility guidelines with those of Special Supplemental Nutritional Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC).  
   "Unfortunately, many state and local school boards have informed me that many parents are finding it difficult to pay the reduced price fee, and for some families the fee is an insurmountable barrier to participation," said Dole. "There are a number of great individuals who work daily with these children - who take money from their own pockets to help bridge this inequity." There is broad, bipartisan support for this pilot program, and it is strongly supported by school nutrition directors across the country. 
   The School Lunch and Breakfast programs have three income categories: free, reduced and paid meals. The children from families whose income is between 130 percent of poverty and 185 percent of poverty are eligible for reduced price meals. It is the smallest of the three categories. More than 500 state and local school boards have passed resolutions urging Congress to eliminate the reduced price category and expand free lunches and breakfasts to all of those children whose families' incomes are at or below 185 percent of poverty. 
   The Senate's version of the congressional budget resolution must be reconciled with the House of Representatives' version. Dole will work with her colleagues to ensure funding for the pilot program remains in the final congressional budget resolution and in the appropriations bill. 
   Background 
   In 2004, Dole succeeded in having the School Lunch and Breakfast pilot program authorized to be funded with discretionary funds, and in 2006, 11 Senators wrote to the appropriations committee requesting funding for the pilot program, but to date the pilot program has not received funding. 
   The Secretary of Agriculture must select five states to participate in the pilot program.
 
 