SENATE APPROVES SEN. DOLE AMENDMENT TO MAINTAIN TAX FREE ACCESS TO RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS FOR NATIONAL GUARDSMEN, RESERVISTS ON ACTIVE DUTY
  Today the Senate approved an amendment offered by Sen. Elizabeth Dole to the congressional budget resolution that paves the way for future legislation that would allow national guardsmen and reservists called to active duty for at least six months to continue making early withdrawals from their IRA, 401(k) or 403(b) retirement accounts without having to pay a 10 percent tax penalty. Dole's plan would extend until 2012 Section 827 of the Pension Protection Act of 2006, which allows guardsmen and reservists to make these types of penalty-free withdrawals. Under current law, this provision is set to expire at the end of 2007.  
   "Members of our National Guard and military reserves play a pivotal role in keeping America safe, always standing ready to put their daily lives on hold and answer the call of duty," said Dole. "Our guardsmen and reservists can face lengthy deployments that require them to leave not only their loved ones, but also their regular jobs and paychecks. This abrupt cutoff of a family's main source of income can obviously result in major financial strains. 
   "As we continue to fight the Global War on Terror, members of the Guard and Reserve are going to be called upon more and more. We must send a strong message that we appreciate our service members and the contributions they make to our national security. We can send that message by allowing these men and women continued penalty-free access to their retirement savings if they find themselves in a deployment-related financial crunch. These families should not have to accrue debt or borrow against their homes just to make ends meet." 
   Dole said that while she would prefer to make the early withdrawal provision permanent, she is pleased that the Senate has taken the first step towards keeping it in place for the next five years. 
   The Senate's version of the congressional budget resolution must be reconciled with the House of Representatives' version. Senator Dole plans to introduce legislation to authorize funding and fully implement the early withdrawal provision later in the year.
 
 