SEN. DOLE, REP. TAYLOR RECEIVE UPDATES FROM FEMA OFFICIALS
  Representatives from the offices of Sen. Elizabeth Dole and Rep. Charles Taylor (NC-11) today held meetings with officials from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), the Small Business Administration (SBA) and state disaster agencies to discuss concerns about hurricane damages and claims in Western North Carolina.  
   "I am pleased that FEMA officials traveled to North Carolina to update our offices, so we in turn can provide our constituents with the most current information," said Senator Dole. "The meetings allowed North Carolinians to raise their concerns face to face with the appropriate officials. It is absolutely paramount that folks in all parts of the state receive needed assistance as quickly as possible; however, it is crucial that assistance is given to the people who truly need it the most." 
   "The good people of Western North Carolina need and deserve additional help," said Rep. Taylor. "We were successful at quickly getting emergency assistance to people who lost their homes and to help replace fruit trees and repair other agricultural damage. It is crucial that we get help for the people who need federal assistance the most." 
   On Friday, Dole and Taylor's offices are organizing another meeting for Western North Carolina officials to receive an update from and express concerns to officials from FEMA, SBA, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, the Army Corps of Engineers and state government. 
   Earlier this month, Dole and Taylor both called for an investigation into allegations of fraudulent claims to FEMA following the hurricane season of 2004. They expressed concern about FEMA's fraud prevention measures and the system in which the agency verifies the legitimacy of claims. Many concerned constituents have contacted their offices in recent weeks regarding the claims. 
   Since allegations of fraud were first raised, Dole and Taylor's offices have maintained regular contact with government officials from each of the disaster-affected counties as well as officials at FEMA through detailed inquiries and correspondence.
   Contact: Lindsay Taylor, 202/224-7905.
 
 