SEN. DOLE DISAPPOINTED THAT MEASURE TO COMBAT WASTEFUL SPENDING FAILS IN SENATE
  Sen. Elizabeth Dole today expressed disappointment that an amendment to provide the president the authority to rescind individual earmarks failed to advance in the Senate. Similar to a line-item veto measure, which Dole has championed since arriving in the Senate, this amendment would have allowed the president to target and reject large spending projects buried in legislation and send them back to the Senate and House for an up or down vote.  
   "I am disheartened that the Senate today failed to pass a much-needed provision to combat wasteful government spending," said Dole. "This amendment would have helped further reform the earmarking process, trimmed the deficit, and saved the tax dollars of hardworking Americans." 
   "I applaud Senator Judd Gregg's hard work on this measure, and I remain strongly committed to working with him and my other colleagues to ensure that the president and Congress have the ability to utilize this important tool to hold the line on spending." 
   Dole cosponsored the amendment, known as "A Second Look at Wasteful Spending," which would have: 
   * Allowed the president to send up to 4 rescission packages per year to Congress; 
   * Required Congressional approval of the president's rescissions; and 
   * Required savings from the rescissions to be used for deficit reduction. 
   Background 
   Last week during the Senate debate of the earmark and lobbying reform bill, the majority refused to allow consideration of an amendment to give the president line-item rescission authority. 
   During her first year in the Senate, Dole introduced legislation calling for a constitutional amendment to give the president line-item veto authority to strike certain spending measures from legislation in the interest of budget discipline. In the 109th Congress, she reintroduced her legislation and also cosponsored measures to provide the president the authority to rescind individual earmarks and send them back to Congress for an up or down vote.
 
 