SEN. DOLE'S COMMUNITY COLLEGE, JOB TRAINING PROVISIONS INCLUDED IN HIGHER EDUCATION BILL
  U.S. Sen. Elizabeth Dole today supported Senate passage of a higher education bill that will expand access to colleges and universities and improve student financial aid programs. Dole successfully pressed for the bill to include measures modeled after her legislation to strengthen community colleges and job training programs.  
   Specifically, the bill allows for more targeted grant funding for institutions when developing curriculum for workforce development. It also provides assistance for local business owners or operators to partner with colleges, universities, and community colleges, with the idea that local business owners need to have sharpened skills to remain competitive. Additionally, the legislation takes steps to increase the transparency of the class credit transfer process to prevent the needless repetition of coursework. These provisions are part of Dole's Higher Education Affordability, Access, and Opportunity Act that she introduced earlier this year. 
   "Most new jobs created today require skilled workers who have some higher education attainment," said Dole. "In North Carolina and many other states, our community colleges are literally on the front lines, leading the way in training workers for high demand jobs. This important legislation will help more individuals attend colleges and universities, receive an education and succeed in our competitive global economy." 
   In addition, Dole is pleased that the higher education reauthorization bill includes a phased-in increase of the Pell Grant from $4,310 to $6,300 by academic year 2011-2012. She also applauds the authorization of a pilot program for community college scholarships in the amount of $1,000 a quarter or $2,000 a year for students who maintain at least a 2.0 or C grade point average. 
   Background 
   The U.S. Department of Labor estimates that nearly two-thirds of new jobs created between 2004 and 2014 will be filled by workers with some post-secondary education.
 
 