SEN. DOLE ISSUES STATEMENT ON NORTH CAROLINA JUDICIAL NOMINEE FRANK WHITNEY BEFORE SENATE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE
  Sen. Elizabeth Dole today introduced Frank Whitney, the president's nominee to be a U.S. District Judge in the Western District of North Carolina, in a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing on his nomination. Dole, along with Sen. Richard Burr, recommended Whitney to President Bush. Below are Dole's remarks:
   Mr. Chairman, I want to thank you for holding today's hearing. It is my great honor to introduce Frank DeArmon Whitney, the president's nominee to serve as a U.S. District Judge in the Western District of North Carolina. Mr. Whitney brings an impressive record of accomplishment and achievement before this Committee, and he is an outstanding choice for this important post. 
   Frank Whitney has deep roots in North Carolina and in public service. He attended Wake Forest University and the business and law schools at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. After receiving his law degree with honors, Frank clerked on the prestigious U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit for the Honorable David Sentelle, a favorite son of North Carolina - and it's a privilege to have Judge Sentelle with us today.
   Upon completing his clerkship and a year in private law practice, Frank returned to North Carolina and dedicated himself to public service. For nearly 11 years, he served as an Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Western District of North Carolina. While in the Western District, he acquired substantial trial experience--both criminal and civil--and earned the respect of his colleagues and peers.
   In 2002, Frank was elevated to the post of U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of North Carolina. As a result of his leadership, energy, and enthusiasm, the Eastern District has experienced a period of robust and resounding success. Among his many accomplishments, Frank Whitney has supervised what some have called the "most successful public corruption prosecution in North Carolina history." He also has helped prepare Iraqis for the process of drafting a Constitution and establishing a judicial system. He has even recovered North Carolina's original copy of the U.S. Bill of Rights, which was stolen from the state capitol in 1865.
   His performance as U.S. Attorney has elicited high praise. The Raleigh News & Observer credited Frank Whitney for awaking elected officials to the "importance of ethics in government," and the newspaper attributed his incredible success to his "restless mental and physical energy" and "Boy Scout idealism." Others who have had the opportunity to observe Frank's work have described him as aggressive, yet fair.
   Those who know Frank best--including those who have worked for him in the U.S. Attorney's office--are effusive in their support for his nomination. One of Frank's colleagues made the following assessment: "Frank is personable and gracious, yet knows the law and seeks justice. He has an abiding love for our country and is deeply committed to the principles that have made it great. He appreciates the historic separation of powers and understands judicial self-restraint. Frank possesses vast legal knowledge and demonstrates admirable judicial temperament." Mr. Chairman, this description is consistent with everything that I know about Frank Whitney, and I submit that this is precisely the type of person we need on our federal courts.
   I have spoken mainly of Frank's service to this country as its representative in court, but there is another component of his career that I must commend. That is his impressive record of military service, which began during his collegiate days at Wake Forest, where he participated in ROTC. Frank is presently a lieutenant colonel in the U.S. Army Reserves, and has worked as an intelligence officer and as a judge advocate. He has been awarded numerous military honors, including a Parachutist's Badge and three Meritorious Service Medals. Mr. Chairman, Frank Whitney truly has dedicated his life to serving his country - as a civilian and as a soldier.
   Frank comes to this Committee with impeccable credentials, and I am confident that he would serve with great distinction as a member of the federal judiciary. It is my privilege to give him my strongest endorsement.
   Thank you again for holding a hearing for this distinguished North Carolinian and public servant. I hope that the Committee will act with due speed on his nomination and that I soon will have the opportunity to cast a vote for his confirmation on the Senate floor.
   Contact: Katie Norman, 202/224-6342.
 
 