SEN. DOLE VOICES STRONG SUPPORT OF THOMAS SCHROEDER'S NOMINATION TO SERVE AS U.S. DISTRICT JUDGE FOR NORTH CAROLINA MIDDLE DISTRICT
  U.S. Sen. Elizabeth Dole today made the following remarks in a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing on Thomas Schroeder's nomination to serve as U.S. District Judge for the Middle District of North Carolina: 
   "Mr. Chairman, thank you for holding today's hearing. It is an honor to introduce to the Committee Thomas David Schroeder, the president's nominee for U.S. District Judge for the Middle District of North Carolina. Mr. Schroeder is an accomplished attorney who brings a highly impressive record of legal achievement and dedicated community service before this Committee. He is an outstanding choice for this important judicial post.  
   "Tom attended the University of Kansas and the University of Cincinnati's Conservatory of Music. I am pleased to note that in addition to Tom being a fellow KU alum with my husband Bob Dole, his parents resided in Bob's hometown of Russell, Kansas. It was after Tom's days as a Jayhawk that he attended Notre Dame Law School on an academic scholarship, where he was Editor-in-Chief of the Notre Dame Law Review. After receiving his law degree, Tom went on to clerk on the prestigious U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit for the late Honorable George MacKinnon. 
   "Upon completing his clerkship, Tom started in private practice with the prominent North Carolina law firm of Womble, Carlyle, Sandridge and Rice, where today he is a leading partner and former Vice-Chairman of the firm. Tom has been a practicing civil litigation attorney now for 23 years. He has briefed and argued many cases in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit and the North Carolina Court of Appeals. He has handled matters in all federal trial courts in North Carolina and in the U.S. Courts of Appeals for the 11th and D.C. Circuits. Additionally, Tom has been at the forefront of some of the largest litigation cases in North Carolina and the country. He has handled cases with millions and even billions of dollars at stake for his clients and has received the acclaim of his peers. He received the top rating by The Best Lawyers in America for 2006 and 2007. He was selected as a "North Carolina Super Lawyer" by Law and Politics magazine, and is an AV-rated attorney, the highest rating given by Martindale Hubbell. 
   "It should be noted that Tom's firm, Womble Carlyle, is the largest and one of the oldest law firms in my state. Womble Carlyle is an American Lawyer Top 100 ranked law firm, and it was the first ever law firm to receive the Thurgood Marshall Scholarship Fund's Corporate Leadership Award in 2003. This firm has a long history of giving back to the communities it serves, and during Tom's tenure, he has been integral to those efforts. Tom was one of the most senior partners involved in Womble Carlyle's pro-bono work on behalf of victims of Hurricane Katrina. He has devoted dozens of hours of his own time to helping families with damaged and destroyed homes to obtain clear title so they can gain access to rebuilding funds. Womble Carlyle has assisted hundreds of Katrina victims in this work, garnering pro-bono awards from Southeast Louisiana Legal Services and the Louisiana State Bar Association. This accomplishment is even more remarkable in light of the fact that the firm has no offices in Louisiana. 
   "Despite the demands of a top-tier law practice, Tom is personally involved with his community in Winston-Salem. In addition to working with his church, he has given his time to Forsyth County Court Volunteers, working with first-time offender youths to help turn their lives around at the earliest opportunity. He has also volunteered with the local District Attorney's office to assist in prosecuting sexual abuse cases involving minors. In addition, Tom has advocated for law-related education in North Carolina's public schools through his work with the Phi Alpha Delta legal fraternity's educational programs. 
   "Mr. Chairman, the folks who know Tom - including those with whom he has practiced - are unreserved in their support of his nomination. To quote one colleague: "Tom is a great lawyer. Until he was nominated by President Bush, I never knew of Tom's politics. I do know his integrity, his professionalism, his knowledge of the law and his commitment to justice. He is a kind and caring man who embodies the best in a civilized person committed to the rule of law and love for humanity." Mr. Chairman, those are the words of former longtime Democratic Governor of North Carolina, Jim Hunt. And that description is in line with everything I know about Tom Schroeder - impressive knowledge of the law, commitment to the rule of law, and an even judicial temperament. 
   "Of course, those who know Tom best are the ones who sustain him in all of his professional and charitable work - his wonderful family, who join us here today. His wife Kem is an attorney and former clerk for the Honorable Clyde Hamilton who is now on the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals. She is the President of the Winston-Salem Children's Museum, a local charitable institution devoted to children's literacy. Their daughter Katie is 17 and a junior at Salem Academy, where she is a Board Member on her schools' Habitat for Humanity Project, and son Cy is 15 and a sophomore at Forsyth Country Day School. Cy is currently working towards completion of his Eagle Scout Award through his Scout Troop, where his Dad is actively involved. We are also joined today by Tom's brother Paul Schroeder and his wife Peggy, from Hershey, Pennsylvania. 
   "Mr. Chairman, Tom comes before the Committee with excellent credentials. I know that he will serve our federal judiciary with honor and distinction. I am proud to give his nomination my wholehearted endorsement, and I hope the Committee will act with all due speed on his nomination. Thank you."
 
 