SEN. DOLE COSPONSORS LEGISLATION TO HELP CONNECT PEOPLE WITH VOLUNTEER, COMMUNITY SERVICES
  Sen. Elizabeth Dole announced that she will again be the lead Republican cosponsor of the Calling for 2-1-1 Act. 2-1-1 is a telephone number that connects callers with important community services and volunteer opportunities and is affiliated with United Way agencies. The legislation would expand 2-1-1 to provide families and individuals a one stop shop for child care, health insurance, job aid and other important services.  
   "With the abundance of agencies and help lines, people often aren't sure where to turn to get the proper assistance," said Senator Dole. "The 2-1-1 line allows families and individuals to find the faith based, community or government agency to best serve their needs." 
   Everyday someone in North Carolina needs essential services that range from finding substance abuse assistance to securing adequate care for a child or an aging parent. United Way 2-1-1 is very beneficial in coordinating volunteer efforts and plays an important role in such events as the July 2003 bankruptcy of Pillowtex in Kannapolis, N.C., when more than 2,000 former Pillowtex employees utilized the service and were able to obtain assistance with rent, utilities, and other basic needs. 
   "United Way 2-1-1 has done an outstanding job in working to meet so many needs," said Senator Dole. "I have seen first hand why it is so important to coordinate volunteers and various agencies, particularly during a crisis situation." 
   Background 
   In the 108th Congress, Senator Dole was the lead Republican cosponsor of the Calling for 2-1-1 Act of 2003. 
   Currently, 40% of North Carolinians in 15 of the 100 counties have access to 2-1-1 through four regional call centers. Services are available through the Triangle United Way covering Wake, Durham, Orange and Chatham Counties; United Way of Central Carolinas covering Mecklenburg, Union, and Cabarrus Counties; United Way of Asheville and Buncombe County in partnership with United Ways of Henderson and McDowell Counties; and services being provided through the United Ways of Greater Greensboro, Greater High Point, and Forsyth, Randolph, Rockingham and Davie Counties through the Piedmont Triad United Way Services partnership.
   Contact: Lindsay Taylor, 202/224-7905.
 
 