SENATE COMMITTEE APPROVES BILL TO EXPAND CARL SANDBURG HOME NATIONAL HISTORIC SITE
  Today U.S. Sen. Elizabeth Dole applauded the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources for approving the Carl Sandburg Home National Historic Site Boundary Revision Act of 2007. The legislation, which Dole introduced with Sen. Richard Burr, would authorize the expansion of the site by an additional 115 acres. Rep. Heath Shuler introduced companion legislation in the House of Representatives.  
   "The Carl Sandburg Home has enriched the lives of many North Carolinians through its rich history, natural beauty and abundant educational opportunities," said Dole. "I am pleased the committee has advanced this bill for full Senate consideration so that visitors can continue to enjoy the site for many years to come." 
   "I was pleased to support this legislation and I am glad the Energy Committee approved it today," Burr said. "Expanding the park would enhance the beauty and integrity of the Sandburg Home so that it may be enjoyed by future generations. The visitor center will encourage people to visit this historic site and learn more about one of America's finest authors." 
   "I am extremely pleased that we have taken another important step in protecting the integrity and natural beauty of the Carl Sandburg Home for future generations," said Rep. Shuler. "The Sandburg Home also draws thousands of tourists to Western North Carolina each year. By expanding the site and allowing the building of a new visitor's center we will ensure that the Sandburg Home continues to help drive our economy." 
   Many citizens, local government officials and park officials have expressed concern that development around the site, which is located in the Village of Flat Rock, could negatively impact the historic nature of the 264 acre park that was the home of the late poet, Carl Sandburg. 
   Of the 115 acres to be used in the expansion, up to five acres are needed for visitor parking and a visitor center, and the remaining acres are needed for boundary and scenic view protection. The extension would be located west of Highway 225 and south of Little River Road. 
   Background 
   The expansion of the Carl Sandburg Home National Historic Site is supported by the Flat Rock Village Council, the Henderson County Board of Commissioners, the Greater Hendersonville Chamber of Commerce, and the Travel and Tourism Committee of Henderson County. The site's expansion also is supported by the North Carolina National Park, Parkway and Forests Development Council. 
   This legislation authorizes the expansion of the site's boundary and does not request federal funding.
 
 