SEN. DOLE ANNOUNCES ANTI-GANG FUNDS FOR NORTH CAROLINA
  Sen. Elizabeth Dole today announced that the U.S. Department of Justice will award $2.5 million to the Raleigh-Durham area as a part of the Comprehensive Anti-Gang Initiative. Raleigh-Durham was one of only four areas in the country to receive this funding, which will be used to combat street gangs and boost gang prevention efforts. 
   "I am very pleased that Raleigh-Durham is one of just four areas in the country to receive these vital funds," said Dole. "North Carolina has a dramatically growing gang presence, including MS-13, which is widely regarded as one of the most dangerous gangs in America. Gangs pose a serious threat to our communities' safety, and it is imperative that we give local, state and federal law enforcement officials the resources and tools they need to keep our families out of harm's way."
   According to the Department of Justice, the four sites which include Raleigh-Durham, Rochester, N.Y., Indianapolis and Oklahoma City, were selected based on a variety of factors, including the need for additional anti-gang resources. U.S. Attorneys will be responsible for coordinating federal, state and local anti-gang efforts in implementing this anti-gang initiative.
   According to data from the North Carolina Criminal Justice Analysis Center, in 1999 there were 332 gangs and 5,068 gang members in North Carolina - and by 2004, those numbers had swelled to 387 gangs and 8,517 gang members. Some of the largest concentrations of identified gangs were in the Raleigh-Durham area.
   Background
   Earlier this year, Dole joined Sens. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) and Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) in introducing comprehensive anti-gang legislation. The Gang Abatement and Prevention Act of 2007 would set tougher federal penalties for those who commit gang-related and other violent acts and would directly criminalize and penalize gang crime. It would provide $1 billion over five years for gang prevention, enforcement and witness protection programs.
   The legislation would authorize funding for the expansion of a number of successful community anti-gang programs, including "Operation Ceasefire," a program that is already being used in High Point and Winston-Salem. Under that program, law enforcement officials work collaboratively with local schools, service providers and community and faith leaders to help prevent violent gang activities.
 
 