SEN. DOLE URGES FUNDING TO COMBAT GROWING METH PROBLEM
  Sen. Elizabeth Dole today contacted the Chairman and members of the House Committee on Appropriations to urge inclusion of the Combat Meth Act in the final version of the Commerce, Justice, and Science Appropriations bill. The legislation has already been passed by the U.S. Senate. Dole is a cosponsor of the legislation.  
   "There is no question that this nation needs a far-reaching strategy on meth," said Dole. "We need to reduce demand for this drug by educating Americans about its dangers and finding ways to break meth addiction. Efforts to combat this problem are especially critical to North Carolina, where the rapid spread of this pervasive drug needs to be stopped." 
   Statistics of methamphetamine usage are staggering, especially in North Carolina. From 2000 until 2004, meth lab seizures in North Carolina went up 2,013 percent, from 16 each year to 322 each year. This year, the state has already seized 258 labs and 85 children have been rescued from meth homes. One of the most dangerous illegal drugs today, meth causes violent behavior, is extremely detrimental to the nervous system, and causes mental illness. 
   Background: 
   The Combat Meth Act is modeled after a successful Oklahoma state law. Pseudoephedrine, a primary ingredient in producing meth, can be obtained from cold medicine. The Senate bill calls for limiting the amount of cold medicine one person can buy in a month to 7.5 grams and moving cold medicines containing pseudoephedrine behind pharmacy counters. The bill also allocates $43 million in new anti-meth funding for law enforcement, training, and treatment. The legislation was approved as an amendment to the Commerce, Justice, and Science Appropriations bill passed by the full Senate. 
   NOTE: Once a conference committee consisting of House and Senate members approves a final bill, both chambers must approve the conference report before it goes to the president for his signature.
   Contact: Lindsay Taylor, 202/224-6342.
 
 