SEN. DOLE ANNOUNCES ADDITIONAL OUTLYING LANDING FIELD PUBLIC HEARING IN CHARLOTTE
  Sen. Elizabeth Dole today announced that the U.S. Navy has agreed to her request that it hold an additional hearing in Charlotte on the proposed outlying landing field (OLF) in northeastern North Carolina. Details of the hearing are as follows:  
   When: Tuesday, April 17, 2007 
   Time: 4:30 p.m. to 6:30 p.m. - Open Information Session 
  7:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m. - Public Hearing 
   Where: Charlotte Convention Center 
  Ballroom "A" 
  501 S. College St. 
  Charlotte, N.C. 
   "I welcome this chance for more North Carolinians to personally voice their concerns about the Navy's proposed OLF," said Dole. "This issue has attracted the attention of residents from all corners of our state. The hearings held in eastern North Carolina are critical, but it is also important that other concerned residents in the central and western parts of our state have the opportunity to attend and participate in a public hearing on this issue." 
   Last week, Dole called on the Secretary of the Navy to hold an additional public hearing in Charlotte so that more concerned North Carolinians can register their views. The Navy already had scheduled six public hearings in northeastern North Carolina, which began on March 19 and go through April 4, in Hyde, Bertie, Perquimans, Craven, Beaufort and Washington Counties. 
   Background 
   North Carolinians interested in registering their opinion on the OLF with the Navy may provide written comments or give oral statements to the Navy at the public hearings. For a complete list of dates and locations, visit www.olfseis.com and click on the "public hearings" section. Written comments may be faxed or mailed to: 
   Commander, Naval Facilities Engineering Command Atlantic 
  Attn: OLF SEIS Project Manager, Code EV21 
  6506 Hampton Blvd., Norfolk, VA 23508-1278 
  (757) 322-4894 (fax to the attention of OLF SEIS Project Manager, Code EV21) 
   Note: All comments must be received or postmarked by April 24, 2007.
 
 