SEN. DOLE COMMENTS ON JUDICIAL NOMINEES
  Sen. Elizabeth Dole today applauded the Senate for approving the nominations of Robert J. Conrad to be a U.S. District Court Judge for the Western District of North Carolina and James C. Dever III to be a U.S. District Court Judge for the Eastern District of North Carolina. The text of Sen. Dole's floor speech is below:  
   Mr. President, it is my privilege to support Jim Dever for a seat on the U.S. District Court for Eastern North Carolina has been vacant. This seat has been vacant for six years and is considered a judicial emergency by the Judicial Conference. In fact, a vote for Jim will end the longest district court vacancy in the country. Jim, who was an outstanding editor-in-chief of the Duke University Law Journal, lives in Raleigh and currently serves as United States Magistrate Judge in the Eastern District of North Carolina. Raleigh, the state's capital and the District's largest city, is without a resident District Court Judge. Elevating Jim to the District Court will end this problem. 
   Not one single objection has been raised about Jim Dever's qualifications. He has broad bipartisan support. Robinson Everett, a Duke Law professor and former chief judge of the Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces, describes Jim Dever as having "all the requisite qualities"
   ..."he will be a "superb jurist." 
   I am also delighted to support Bob Conrad, nominated in April 2003 to be United States District Judge for the Western District of North Carolina. Bob is sorely needed. As our courts confront the ramifications of the Supreme Court's recent decision on the Federal Minimum Sentence Guidelines, it is reasonable to expect that we will have even higher case loads and need more judges to deal with them. 
   Bob is known for his prosecution of a cigarette smuggling ring funding the terrorist group Hezbollah, and in 1999, Bob Conrad was appointed by then-Attorney General Janet Reno to head the U.S. Justice Department's investigation into campaign fundraising abuses. 
   Bob is a graduate of Clemson and the University of Virginia Law School. He served as a federal prosecutor in Charlotte, starting in 1989. From 2001 until 2004 he was the U.S. Attorney for the Western District of North Carolina. Currently he is in private practice at one of the largest law firms in the world, as a partner in its Charlotte office. 
   Both these North Carolina nominees come with tremendous credentials, and it is my privilege to give them my strong support. 
   I yield the floor.
   Contact: Lindsay Taylor, 202-224-7905
 
 