SEN. DOLE DELIVERS STATEMENT TO BRAC COMMISSION
  Sen. Elizabeth Dole today delivered remarks to the regional Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission hearing. The hearing served as a forum for gathering input and hearing concerns from affected communities regarding the Department of Defense recommendations that the BRAC Commission is in the process of evaluating.  
   Below please find the text of Senator Dole's prepared remarks: 
   Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen. Thank you all so much for being here on this very important day for North Carolina's military installations and our communities. And what a key role, indeed, our bases play in America's national security. Today is also very significant in that it marks the one year anniversary of the handing over of power to the Iraqi government. The fact that the President of the United States chose to commemorate this historic event from a North Carolina base is an incredible testament to the value our bases hold for this nation's defense. I am looking forward to hearing from the President at Fort Bragg this evening. 
   Commissioner Coyle, Admiral Gehman, Commissioner Skinner, General Hill, Christine Hill and all of the BRAC staff, I truly appreciate the time and effort that has gone into these regional hearings. Until the human face of the communities - their insights, their concerns, and their support - can be heard directly, the picture created by metrics and algorithms cannot be completed nor balanced. This regional hearing marks the halfway point in your whirlwind - and I am sure - exhaustive fact gathering tour. The objective and diligent analysis that you have invested in the BRAC process is a credit to you all and will ultimately serve to make our military more efficient and effective in the future. 
   Unfortunately, my colleague, Senator Burr, is unable to be here with us. He has written a letter to the Commission that has been included in our state submission for the record. 
   I would like to recognize Representative Price, Representative Etheridge, Governor Easley, Lieutenant Governor Perdue, and the distinguished Mayors from Charlotte, Fayetteville, Havelock, Spring Lake, and Hope Mills. Thank you for being here today. 
   I also thank each and every one of our community members for attending this hearing. Many of you have traveled quite a distance and we truly appreciate your advocacy and support - so critical for our great bases. 
   As embodied by Camp Lejeune and Marine Corps Air Station New River, our installations are a model for joint interoperability and readiness. They are leaders on compatible land use and aggressively keeping encroachment in check. And they are environmental standard bearers. Additionally, North Carolina is a leader in quality-of-life programs and educational support for military personnel and their families. We are indeed strong in military tradition, and we are darn proud of it. 
   As you will see today, we are delighted that the Department of Defense has recognized the incredible value of North Carolina's military installations by expanding Seymour Johnson and bringing the U.S. Army Forces Command Headquarters and the Army Reserve Headquarters to Pope Air Force Base as well as European-based forces to Fort Bragg. However, today you will also see why the decision to realign the 43rd Airlift Wing's C-130 aircraft deviated from the selection criteria, and how there is much to be lost and nothing to be gained by relocating the Army Research Office. Additionally, you will see why the Naval Air Depot at Cherry Point as well as the Marine Corps Air Station Cherry Point merit expansion. 
   The Air Forces' recommendation was based on a metric that inadequately valued C-130 aircraft and the bases that house them. By expanding Ft. Bragg while realigning Pope Air Force Base we are missing a significant opportunity for interoperability and joint power projection that exists within North Carolina. 
   The Army Research Office in Durham has built strong relationships with the Research Triangle Park and Duke University, the University of North Carolina, and North Carolina State University. These relationships have created synergies which have enabled an exchange of knowledge and resulted in scientific achievements that benefit our soldiers. 
   Likewise, there are unique synergies between the Naval Air Depot and the Marine Corps Air Station at Cherry Point that merit their expansion. They have a highly skilled work force, superb infrastructure, and training ranges that are safe from encroachment. 
   So in conclusion - as I know we are limited in our time today - let me assure you that North Carolinians fully support our bases and as you will hear directly from our communities, those bases, are well positioned for further expansion. 
   Thank you very much.
   Contact: Lindsay Taylor, 202/224-6342.
 
 