SEN. DOLE COSPONSORS BILL TO PROMOTE BROWNFIELDS DEVELOPMENT
  Sen. Elizabeth Dole today joined Sen. Carl Levin to introduce the Brownfields Redevelopment Enhancement Act to boost federal support for brownfields clean up and development. 
   "Across North Carolina and our nation, communities are partnering with the private sector, and state and federal agencies to turn brownfields into productive sites that promote economic growth and job creation," said Dole. "These deserted, contaminated industrial facilities are being reclaimed, cleaned up and redeveloped. With nearly one million brownfields remaining in the United States, we need to strengthen these important public-private partnerships. We at the federal level must do our part to encourage and enable these endeavors to continue."
   The Levin-Dole bill will make Brownfields Economic Development Initiative (BEDI) grant funding more accessible to local governments. Currently BEDI grants, which are administered by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), are available only if they are coupled with HUD Section 108 loan guarantees, typically in a high loan-to-grant ratio. These Section 108 loans must be backed and collateralized by the local government's future allocations of HUD Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) funds. This requirement is unworkable for many communities. For smaller localities that do not have an entitlement to CDBG funds, BEDI funds are very difficult to obtain. And larger CDBG entitlement communities also have great difficultly in obtaining BEDI funding, either because they have reached their allowable CDBG borrowing limit, or because the demand for scarce CDBG funding is so great.
   This legislation would amend the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 by untying the BEDI program from the requirement to obtain Section 108 loans, thus making BEDI funding more accessible for communities large and small. The legislation also would authorize $50 million in annual HUD grant funding for brownfields projects.
   The Brownfields Redevelopment Enhancement Act is also cosponsored by Senators Martinez, Reed, Voinovich and Jeffords, and the House of Representatives has already approved a similar measure. This legislation is broadly supported by many localities and private sector organizations, including the U.S. Conference of Mayors, the National Association of Development Organizations, the National Association of Local Government Environmental Professionals, the National Association of Homebuilders, the Associated General Contractors of America, the National Association of Industrial and Office Properties, the National Brownfield Association, the Real Estate Roundtable, the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts, and North Carolina-based Cherokee Investment Partners.
 
 