SEN. DOLE TO BRAC CHAIRMAN: CHERRY POINT CAN ACCEPT ADDITIONAL SQUADRONS
  Sen. Elizabeth Dole today sent a letter to Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Chairman Anthony Principi as a follow up to a phone conversation Thursday evening, during which Sen. Dole stressed the existing capacity of Marine Corps Air Station Cherry Point to base more aircraft. Additionally, Sen. Dole reiterated her concerns with the Department of Defense's recommendations to the Commission regarding Pope Air Force Base and the Army Research Office in Durham. Dole also spoke with Commissioner Harold Gehman.  
   "My belief is that as the commission heads into this final stage of site visits and hearings, we have to make our case at every turn," said Dole. "I very much appreciated Chairman Principi and Admiral Gehman hearing me out, and I believe the conversation was positive." 
   The points Dole emphasized include: 
   Marine Corps Air Station has the capacity and the community desire to absorb at least four more squadrons, in addition to the two squadrons already scheduled to move to Cherry Point in 2007, in order to relieve pressure on Naval Air Station Oceana. 
   Reject the recommendation to realign Pope AFB and instead establish a joint base at Fort Bragg and Pope AFB. The close working relationships forged in joint training are irreplaceable, and the 43rd Airlift Wing plays a critical role in the rapid deployment and training of the XVIII Airborne Corps. 
   Reject the recommendation to close the Army Research Office in Durham. This office has strong relationships with Research Triangle Park and Duke University, the University of North Carolina and North Carolina State University. Relocating this office would result in a loss of intellectual capital and resources with nothing gained. 
   Background 
   On Wednesday, Dole was joined by other members of the North Carolina delegation in calling on the BRAC Commission to reject the Department of Defense's recommendation to realign Pope Air Force Base. They urged the Commission to establish a joint base at Fort Bragg and Pope Air Force Base, highlighting the irreplaceable close working relationships forged in joint training, and the critical role the 43rd Airlift Wing plays in the rapid deployment and training of the XVIII Airborne Corps. The Commission's final recommendations are due to President Bush by September 8, 2005. 
   Dole, the senior senator from North Carolina, is a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee.
 
 