SENS. DOLE, GRAHAM WITHDRAW HOLDS ON VIETNAM TRADE BILL
  Sens. Elizabeth Dole and Lindsey Graham today withdrew their temporary holds on legislation that would authorize the president to grant Vietnam Permanent Normal Trade Relations (PNTR) status, upon receiving the Bush Administration's commitment that it will work to ensure that the U.S. textile industry is not harmed by Vietnam's accession into the WTO. Dole and Graham had expressed serious concerns about the potential negative impact that this agreement could have on Carolina textile jobs. Today the National Council of Textile Organizations indicated to Dole and Graham that the Administration's commitment is acceptable.  
   In response to a letter from Dole and Graham, U.S. Trade Representative Susan Schwab and Secretary of Commerce Carlos Gutierrez wrote that based on data collected with the help of industry, the Department of Commerce will self-initiate antidumping cases against Vietnam if the data suggests that dumping is occurring. This is the first time that the government has agreed to self-initiate on behalf of the U.S. textile industry. 
   "The North Carolina textile industry has good reason to be concerned about PNTR for Vietnam - a communist country that heavily subsidizes its textile and apparel sector," said Dole. "I am very pleased that we were able to work with the textile industry and the Administration to come up with a solution that will allow our industry to defend itself against unfair and harmful trade practices by Vietnam. I welcome the commitment of the Administration to take these important steps to support our textile workers." 
   "I'm very pleased Secretary Gutierrez and Ambassador Schwab have agreed to self-initiate dumping cases when the data suggests it is occurring," said Graham. "The changes will help textile industries in the Carolinas compete and protect them from what I believe would be unfair Vietnamese trade advantages. Vietnam holds the potential to impact the textile industry as much as China. The leadership of Senator Dole made a difference and I enjoyed being her ally in this effort. Senator Dole is a tough, but fair, negotiator. Working together I believe we have made a difference for the Carolinas' textile interests." 
   Background 
   On May 31, the United States formalized an agreement that would pave the way for Vietnam to formally join the 149-member World Trade Organization (WTO). 
   Dole and Graham had placed holds on the legislation that would authorize the president to grant permanent normal trade relations status to Vietnam, which would pave the way for Vietnam to join the World Trade Organization.
 
 