SEN. DOLE: MEDICARE DRUG PROGRAM MUST WORK FOR ALL BENEFICIARIES
  Sen. Elizabeth Dole today made the following statement at a Senate Aging Committee hearing on meeting the challenges of Medicare drug benefit implementation: 
   Thank you Chairman Smith for holding this hearing to examine and address the challenges in implementing the new Medicare prescription drug program. Twenty four million Americans, including more than 778,000 North Carolinians, are enrolled in Medicare Part D, and today these folks are receiving more affordable access to life-saving medication. For a majority of these individuals the program is working properly and they are receiving their prescriptions at a much lower cost than before. In fact, pharmacies across the nation are filling one million prescriptions a day to Medicare Part D enrollees. However, there are some beneficiaries, in many cases the neediest among us, who are having considerable trouble transitioning into the new program. This is simply unacceptable and clearly not what was intended. It is critical that we identify these problems and work together to ensure that this new program serves each and every beneficiary successfully.  
   I have heard from a number of pharmacists, providers, and beneficiaries in my home state of North Carolina about both the successes and challenges they have encountered in the first month of the new Medicare drug program. While I am delighted to hear that so many Americans who did not have prescription drug coverage before are now benefiting from this program, I am also concerned about those who are encountering obstacles as they try to fill their prescriptions. I have heard reports, as I'm sure we all have, about beneficiaries who are being charged the wrong co-payment - pharmacists and beneficiaries who are not able to get in touch with the plans - and computer systems that are working inadequately. What's worse is that in many cases it is the dual eligible individuals, those who qualify for both Medicare and Medicaid benefits, and the low-income subsidy populations that are having the most trouble. Because these beneficiaries often have more serious health concerns and depend on their prescription drugs the most, it is even more important that these problems be addressed quickly. 
   The new Medicare prescription drug plan is the largest change to Medicare since the program's creation 40 years ago, and with any change of that scale, that magnitude, it is nearly impossible to avoid start-up challenges. But now we must identify those individuals who are vulnerable and make certain that their needs are met. We've got to make certain that the new drug program is working for all beneficiaries, pharmacists, and providers alike. 
   We have already seen tremendous progress in solving some of the initial difficulties. Data submissions have been streamlined, customer services have been enhanced, and pharmacy support has been expanded. I thank Dr. McClellan and CMS for taking steps to quickly improve the systems that were faltering and assist those experiencing problems. I also thank the many pharmacists, providers, caseworkers, state and federal officials, friends, and family members who are working together to assist beneficiaries in their communities. I am disappointed by the unconstructive rhetoric and "blame game" that some are resorting to - we must work together, not point fingers, to solve these problems. 
   In conclusion, let me just say that in the coming days and weeks it is vital that all parties involved continue to make a concerted effort to strengthen the new Medicare drug program. Congress must ensure that diligent work is being done to meet the needs of every beneficiary. Millions of Americans are better off thanks to the benefits provided by this landmark program - and there is no reason why every enrollee should not share the same experience.
   Contact: Katie Norman, 202/224-6342. 
 
 