SEN. DOLE APPLAUDS SENATE PASSAGE OF USA PATRIOT ACT
  Sen. Elizabeth Dole today voted in support of the USA PATRIOT Improvement and Reauthorization Act, which provides important tools essential for law enforcement to combat terrorism and includes measures that aid in the fight against methamphetamine. Dole is a cosponsor of the Combat Meth Act, which provides the basis for the anti-meth provisions in the Patriot Act.  
   "Law enforcement officers must have the authority and tools they need to investigate and track suspected terrorists within our own borders," said Dole. "This legislation reauthorizing the Patriot Act extends critical anti-terrorism provisions, enhances their effectiveness, and expands protections of civil liberties." 
   "I am also very pleased that this bill includes strong provisions to combat the growing problem of methamphetamine abuse," said Dole. "Methamphetamine, as well as the process by which it is made, is dangerous and deadly. This legislation is especially critical to North Carolina, as our state works to stop the rapid spread of this pervasive drug." 
   BACKGROUND ON PATRIOT ACT 
   Since its passage following the September 11, 2001 attacks, the Patriot Act has played a key part in successful operations to protect innocent Americans from terrorist threats. The Act has aided in the arrest of more than 400 suspected terrorists and has broken up terrorist cells in New York, California, Oregon, Virginia, and Florida. 
   COMBAT METH PROVISIONS IN THE PATRIOT ACT 
   Restricts the sale of products used to produce meth, including pseudoephedrine, ephedrine, and phenylpropanolamine (PPA). Requires these products be placed behind the counter, requires purchasers to show identification and sign a logbook, and limits how much one person can buy to 9 grams a month and 3.6 grams in a single day. 
   Creates a new meth precursor Scheduled Listed Chemicals Section in the Controlled Substances Act which imposes tougher penalties for meth producers while allowing legitimate consumers to access the medicines they need without a prescription. 
   Provides an additional $99 million per year for the next five years under the Meth Hot Spots program to train state and local law enforcement to investigate and lock-up meth offenders and expand funding available for personnel and equipment for enforcement, prosecution and environmental clean-up. 
   Provides $20 million in grant funding in 2006 and 2007 for Drug Endangered Children rapid response teams to promote collaboration among federal, state, and local agencies to assist and educate children that have been affected by the production of methamphetamine. 
   Enhances criminal penalties for meth production and trafficking. 
   Enhances international enforcement of meth trafficking.
   Contact: Katie Norman, 202/224-6342.
 
 