SENATE APPROVES SEN. DOLE-SPONSORED MEASURE TO EXTEND FAMILY, MEDICAL LEAVE FOR FAMILIES OF WOUNDED SOLDIERS
  U.S. Sen. Elizabeth Dole today applauded Senate approval of legislation to extend the Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) for up to six months for spouses, sons, daughters, parents and next of kin of members of the Armed Forces, including the National Guard or Reserve, who have combat-related injuries. This measure, which was approved last night, enacts a key recommendation of the Commission on Care for America's Returning Wounded Warriors.  
   "Our men and women in uniform risk their lives to defend our freedoms and keep our nation safe," said Dole. "When service members are injured while answering the call of duty, they deserve to have their loved ones' comfort and support. This legislation will ensure that spouses, parents, sons and daughters of wounded soldiers can take time to care for them without fear of losing their jobs and livelihoods. This is the right thing to do for our military families." 
   In its review, the Commission found that 33 percent of active duty, 22 percent of reserve component, and 37 percent of retired/separated service members report that a family member or close friend relocated for extended periods of time to be with them while they were in the hospital. In addition, 21 percent of active duty, 15 percent of reserve component, and 24 percent of retired/separated service members say friends or family gave up a job to be with them or act as their caregiver. To address this situation and help support these caregivers, the Commission recommended strengthening family support programs by extending the Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) for up to six months for spouses and parents of seriously injured soldiers. 
   The Commission on Care for America's Returning Wounded Warriors, led by former Sen. Bob Dole and former Secretary of Health and Human Services Donna Shalala, was established in March 2007 with the specific goals of conducting a comprehensive review of services the government currently provides to our wounded warriors and delivering recommendations to the President, Secretary of Defense and Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
 
 