SEN. DOLE TACKLES CHINESE CURRENCY ISSUE
  Sen. Elizabeth Dole today joined a bipartisan group of Senators in introducing legislation to address China's refusal to revalue its currency, the yuan. The legislation would penalize China for undervaluing the yuan by authorizing the United States to impose a duty on Chinese imports if the country continues to manipulate its currency.  
   "China's continual refusal to play by the rules is unacceptable," said Senator Dole. "Our manufacturers in North Carolina and across the country are hurting. This legislation sends a powerful message from Congress to China that enough is enough." 
   The bill would impose a 27.5 percent tariff on Chinese products across the board should further negotiations with the Chinese to revalue their currency fail. Economists estimate that China is undervaluing its currency by 15 to 40 percent. The President would be able to remove sanctions once it is certified that China has revalued the currency upwards. The tariffs would not be implemented until U.S. Treasury Department officials have had adequate time to work with the Chinese on instituting reforms. 
   "When economists are estimating that the yuan may be undervalued by as much as 40 percent, it is time to take action," said Senator Dole. "We cannot stand by while our manufacturing sector is being decimated by a country that continues to disregard trade rules." 
   Background 
   The United States has a trade deficit with China estimated in 2004 to be as high as $150 billion. Senator Dole has taken repeated steps to address the devaluation of the yuan. She has sent two letters to U.S. Treasury Secretary John Snow urging him to take action and written a letter to President Bush to bring his attention to this matter. Senator Dole will continue to urge the Administration to press this issue with the Chinese. 
   China's currency has been tightly pegged to the U.S. dollar since 1994. During that period of time, China's economy has grown dramatically, averaging over 8 percent per year. If China's currency freely floated in the market, as is the case in virtually all major world currencies, it would have appreciated substantially reflecting this economic strength. The undervaluation of the yuan makes China's exports less expensive for foreigners and makes imports, including those from North Carolina, more expensive.
   Contact: Lindsay Taylor, 202/224-7905.
 
 