SEN. DOLE ISSUES STATEMENT REGARDING BUSH'S STATE OF THE UNION ADDRESS
  Sen. Elizabeth Dole this evening made the following statement regarding President Bush's State of the Union Address: 
   "Tonight, the President presented a bold vision for where he wants to lead our country. I applaud him for having a frank discussion with the American people about the challenges we face at home and abroad.  
   "I support the President's steadfast commitment to winning the War on Terror. As a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, I wholeheartedly pledge my support to our men and women in uniform, including the many troops from North Carolina who make us so proud. Our brave servicemen and women put themselves in harm's way to ensure that the values of freedom and liberty are spread to others around the world. 
   "With regard to domestic policy, I was pleased the President spoke candidly about the solvency of Social Security. I believe the key right now is to move forward as responsible leaders to strengthen and secure this most treasured program for current beneficiaries and future retirees. 
   "I support the President's push for tax reforms that will allow North Carolinians to keep more of their hard-earned money and will allow small businesses to grow. I am pleased that the President remains committed to growing our economy here at home so that folks looking for work are able to find work. 
   "In addition, I was pleased that the President once again emphasized the need to train younger Americans for jobs of the future. I believe so strongly that North Carolina's community college system plays a critical role in training our young people, and I commend the President for his commitment to this important initiative. 
   "Finally, I was pleased to hear the President continue to articulate his compassionate conservative philosophy. We are certainly a great nation, one of tremendous resolve, and I believe that working together, we can find solutions that will greatly benefit families in North Carolina."
   Contact: Lindsay Taylor, 202/224-7905.
 
 