SEN. DOLE ISSUES STATEMENT ON NORTH CAROLINA JUDICIAL NOMINEES
  Introduction of North Carolina Judicial Nominees Before the Senate Judiciary Committee 
   Mr. Chairman, I want to thank you for holding today's hearing which is so important to North Carolina. Our federal bench has been without the service of these able judges for far too long. It is my honor to introduce to the Committee Judge Terrance Boyle, nominee for the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals; Judge Jim Dever, nominee for the Eastern District of North Carolina; and Bob Conrad, nominee for the Western District of North Carolina.  
   I am so pleased to be sitting here with Senator Richard Burr. This is the first time that we have testified together as Senators. I am glad it is for such a worthy cause as making sure that we have excellent judges on the federal bench. Richard, I look forward to working with you on these and future judicial nominations. 
   When I first joined the United States Senate a little over two years ago, North Carolina had not a single judge on the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals. Imagine - the largest state in the Circuit and not one judge. Currently, North Carolina enjoys the services of Judge Allyson Duncan. But based on our proportion of the Circuit, we should have at least 4 members of the Court who consider North Carolina home. 
   I look forward to a second North Carolinian joining the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals in the near future. Judge Terrence Boyle of Edenton was first nominated to the Fourth Circuit in 1991, then again more than a decade later, in May 2001. Judge Boyle currently serves on the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of North Carolina, a position he has held for 21 years. As a District Court judge, he was designated to sit with the Court of Appeals 12 times, and he has authored over 20 appellate opinions. From 1997 until this past year he served as Chief Judge. 
   Terry received his undergraduate degree from Brown University and a law degree from American University. He began his career working in Congress at the House Subcommittee on Housing, Banking & Currency and later served as an aide to Senator Jesse Helms. Following more than a decade of private practice, Terry became a U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District. 
   In his impressive judicial career, he has received praise from attorneys and colleagues of both political persuasions. Wade Smith, a Raleigh lawyer and the former North Carolina Democratic Party chairman, said about Judge Boyle, "I think he would happily rule against me and happily rule for me whether I'm a Republican or Democrat. I think he makes his decisions on the facts, and that's the best we could ever hope." It is my fervent hope that the committee will act expeditiously in sending Judge Boyle's nomination to the floor. 
   I would like to turn to our district court nominees. North Carolina has had the longest district court vacancy in the country. For six years, a seat on the U.S. District Court for Eastern North Carolina has been vacant. It is considered a judicial emergency by the Judicial Conference. Jim Dever, a former editor-in-chief of the Duke University Law Journal, was first nominated to fill this long-standing vacancy three years ago. 
   Jim lives in Raleigh and currently serves as United States Magistrate Judge in the Eastern District of North Carolina. Raleigh, the State's Capital and the District's largest city, is without a resident District Court Judge. Elevating Jim to the District Court will end this problem. 
   There hasn't been one single objection raised about Jim Dever's qualifications. He has broad bipartisan support. Robinson Everett, a Duke Law professor and former chief judge of the Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces, describes Jim Dever as having "all the requisite qualities"..."he will be a "superb jurist." 
   I am also proud to introduce Bob Conrad, nominated in April 2003 to be United States District Judge for the Western District of North Carolina. Bob is sorely needed. As our courts confront the ramifications of the Supreme Court's recent decision on the Federal Minimum Sentence Guidelines, it is reasonable to expect that we will have even higher case loads and need more judges to deal with them. 
   Bob Conrad is held in high esteem by his colleagues - both Republicans and Democrats. He is known for his prosecution of a cigarette smuggling ring funding the terrorist group Hezbollah, and in 1999, Bob Conrad was appointed by then-Attorney General Janet Reno to head the U.S. Justice Department's investigation into campaign fundraising abuses. 
   Bob is a graduate of Clemson and the University of Virginia Law School. While at Clemson, he was an academic All-American on the basketball team. Bob, it looks like Clemson could use you in the ACC tournament next week! Bob served as a federal prosecutor in Charlotte, starting in 1989. From 2001 until 2004 he was the U.S. Attorney for the Western District of North Carolina. Currently he is in private practice at one of the largest law firms in the world, as a partner in its Charlotte office. 
   All three North Carolina nominees come with impeccable credentials, and it is my privilege to give them my strong support. Mr. Chairman, again, thank you for holding this hearing.
   Contact: Katie Norman, 202/224-6342.
 
 