SEN. DOLE TOUTS BILL TO REMEDY ECONOMIC DISTRESS IN NORTH CAROLINA, SOUTHEAST
  Sen. Elizabeth Dole today testified before the House Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee on Development, Public Buildings, and Emergency Management and urged it to approve the Southeast Crescent Authority (SECA) Act. This legislation - introduced by Rep. Mike McIntyre in the House and Dole in the Senate - would provide funding to spur economic development, establish priorities in development planning, support local development districts and encourage private investment in North Carolina and in other southeastern states. 
   Below are Dole's remarks as delivered: 
   Chairwoman Norton and Congresswoman Capito, thank you very much for holding this hearing today. I welcome the opportunity to discuss the Southeast Crescent Authority Act. This important legislation, which is identical to a companion bill I introduced in the Senate, would improve the lives of people in economically distressed communities across the Southeastern United States. I sincerely appreciate the hard work of my friend, Congressman Mike McIntyre, on this issue, and I am grateful for the work that Congressmen Hayes and Butterfield are doing to help get this legislation passed by the House.  
   Broadly speaking, "economically distressed" hardly seems to describe my home state of North Carolina. Our statewide unemployment rate is a low 4.5 percent. Our economy is growing and adding new jobs - in fact, it was reported last month that 7,600 new tech jobs have been filled in just one year. North Carolina is home to 25 of the Fortune 500 companies - many of which are in Charlotte, the second largest financial center in the United States. 
   But if you travel beyond the glittering skyline of the Queen City, the thriving research and university campuses of the Raleigh-Durham-Chapel Hill Triangle, the bustling Main Streets and commerce centers of the Piedmont Triad and our other cities, and the picturesque storefronts of our small towns?or, if you just head down the road from the sprawling oceanfront and mountainside vacation homes?you find a vastly different North Carolina. 
   It is largely rural, and it is significantly poorer. It is in these parts of North Carolina where educational attainment tends to be lower and unemployment rates tend to be higher. The challenges of globalization have landed smack on the shoulders of the region's textile mill towns, tobacco producing areas, and furniture manufacturing communities. It is also in these parts of North Carolina where the rates of health problems, such as cardiovascular disease, diabetes and obesity, are well above average. Just consider this, if the region east of Interstate 95 in North Carolina were its own state, it would rank 50th in terms of premature mortality. 
   Madam Chairwoman, my aim is certainly not to paint a depressing picture of rural North Carolina; rather, I describe this all-too-often overlooked part of my state so that this subcommittee understands the tremendous opportunity that SECA holds for certain areas in North Carolina and across the Southeast - areas that while distressed, still hold great promise. SECA would provide the assistance to enable communities to leverage existing resources, update infrastructure, improve educational opportunities and attract economic development. Proof positive is what the Appalachian Regional Commission, on which SECA is modeled, has done for parts of Western North Carolina. According to the ARC, the percentage of Appalachian adults with a high school education has doubled over the past 30 years. Many residents now have access to adequate health care for the first time. And more than 840,000 Appalachian adults now have clean water and sanitation facilities. 
   While 29 of our counties in Western North Carolina have benefited from the Appalachian Regional Commission, there is no federal partnership to help our 71 counties to the east - counties that could desperately use a helping hand. For example, one community that would greatly benefit from SECA is located in rural Washington County. Approximately thirty families there live in serious poverty, eight miles away from the closest public sewer system. Because these families do not have indoor plumbing, they are forced to rely on well water and outhouses. This is totally unacceptable in this day and age. 
   Washington County has a modest operating budget of only $13 million per year, and three-quarters of these funds are allocated to state and federally mandated programs such as health care, social services and public safety. The county is financially unable to provide public sewer service to these families due to the lack of available programs at the state and federal level. This is just one example of where SECA could be a tremendous help. 
   Another place that would benefit from SECA is the Town of Ahoskie, a small community of approximately four and a half thousand residents in rural Hertford County. Hertford County is classified as "Tier 1," meaning that it is among North Carolina's most economically deprived communities. According to the National Association of Development Organizations, Ahoskie's wastewater treatment plant has reached full capacity, placing a tremendous burden on the town's ability to grow and prosper. Under current estimates, the Town of Ahoskie must finance a $15.9 million project to expand the treatment plant, but has only been able to secure $6.5 million in grant funding. In order to make up the over $9 million difference, the town will have to raise average sewer rates from $19 to $58 per household. This more than 200 percent rate increase will result in Ahoskie - one of the most economically depressed towns in the state - having the highest sewer fees in North Carolina. 
   Last year, my friend Al Delia, the former director of federal relations at East Carolina University, testified before this subcommittee about SECA. In his testimony, Al referenced a conversation he had with a former Appalachian Regional Commission national Co-Chair, who said, (and I'll quote Al): "ARC rarely puts in the most money to a project, but it often puts the first or the last money into a project. In effect, the ARC money is the glue that holds projects together." 
   Madam Chairwoman, communities across North Carolina and throughout the Southeast need this "glue." These areas are hurting, and as we've seen with ARC and similar development commissions, SECA would make such a positive difference. I am proud to support this legislation - because SECA is not just about trying to provide opportunity - SECA is about not missing out on the tremendous opportunity that is just within this region's grasp. Thank you. 
   Background 
   In 2001, East Carolina University published a study, A Proposal for Economic Growth in the Southeastern United States, which concluded that economic development assistance to the Southeast is necessary to ensure a reduction in poverty for distressed communities in the region. SECA would be a program similar to the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC), which has helped alleviate severe and chronic economic distress in the Appalachian counties of the United States. 
   The region impacted by the SECA Act encompasses millions of people in 429 counties across seven states: North Carolina, Virginia, South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama, Mississippi, and Florida. SECA would be organized and administered in a manner much like ARC. Each of the seven states' governors would serve on a board of directors with a federal co-chairman appointed by the president. 
   North Carolina counties that would be eligible to benefit from the SECA Act include: Alamance, Anson, Beaufort, Bertie, Bladen, Brunswick, Cabarrus, Camden, Carteret, Caswell, Catawba, Chatham, Chowan, Cleveland, Columbus, Craven, Cumberland, Currituck, Dare, Davidson, Duplin, Durham, Edgecombe, Franklin, Gaston, Gates, Granville, Greene, Guilford, Halifax, Harnett, Hertford, Hoke, Hyde, Iredell, Johnston, Jones, Lee, Lenoir, Lincoln, Martin, Mecklenburg, Montgomery, Moore, Nash, New Hanover, Northampton, Onslow, Orange, Pamlico, Pasquotank, Pender, Perquimans, Person, Pitt, Randolph, Richmond, Robeson, Rockingham, Rowan, Sampson, Scotland, Stanly, Tyrrell, Union, Vance, Wake, Warren, Washington, Wayne and Wilson. 
   Dole's bill would authorize $40 million in funding over the next five years.
 
 