SENATE APPROVES CAFTA PROVISIONS TO DEFEND NORTH CAROLINA TEXTILE JOBS
  Sen. Elizabeth Dole today praised the inclusion of trade-related provisions in the Pension Protection Act, which was approved by the Senate late Thursday. The measures give the U.S. Trade Representative additional authority to work to make important changes to DR-CAFTA with regard to the rule of origin for pocketing and the tariff-preference level for Nicaragua. Dole supported DR-CAFTA after securing commitments from the Administration to address these textile concerns. 
   "The pension bill will improve the transparency of pension plans and help protect the retirement funds of nearly 45 million American workers," said Dole. "In addition, I am very pleased this bill included important textile provisions.
   "I supported DR-CAFTA - but only with assurance from the Administration that the North Carolina textile industry's specific concerns would be addressed. Congress now has given USTR additional legislative authority to complete these critical changes, and I hope that USTR will quickly complete the process."
   In May 2005, Dole received a commitment from the Administration that USTR would seek an amendment to DR-CAFTA to benefit producers of textile pocketing by establishing that such fabrics would have to originate in one of the DR-CAFTA signatory countries, including the United States. Under the existing DR-CAFTA, non-visible pocketing can be sourced from anywhere in the world, including China.
   Prior to the DR-CAFTA vote, Dole also urged the Administration to press Nicaragua to address concerns that that country would interpret a provision to allow Chinese fabric to enter the U.S. through Nicaragua in competition with fabric from U.S. textile manufacturers. The Administration subsequently received a guarantee from Nicaragua that it would not interpret the provision in a way that harmed U.S. fabric manufacturers. The provision in the Pension Protection Act provides U.S. Customs and Border Protection the authority to enforce this arrangement.
 
 