SEN. DOLE COMMENTS ON PRESIDENT'S BUDGET PROPOSAL
  U.S. Sen. Elizabeth Dole today made the following statement in response to the president's fiscal year 2009 budget submission to Congress: 
   "The president's proposal is overall a good foundation from which I hope Congress will build a responsible budget that meets our nation's priorities and uses taxpayers' dollars wisely.
   "I welcome the emphasis on border security and enforcement measures because North Carolinians rightfully demand that the government step up and provide the manpower, infrastructure and technology that have been promised to address these critical needs. I especially am glad to see the proposal to expand the 287g program, as I have been working with North Carolina sheriffs and federal immigration officials to make North Carolina the first in the nation to have a statewide plan that allows sheriffs to access 287g and other tools to identify and help process undocumented aliens who have self-identified themselves by committing crimes.
   "I also am encouraged that the president proposes streamlining guest worker programs so that North Carolina industries like agriculture and tourism have access to the temporary labor they need to fill the jobs Americans do not want.
   "While I am pleased to see the president request the single largest annual defense budget in history, I think this still represents a modest down payment on the amount needed to modernize our forces, fully fund military construction, properly fund service members' pay and benefits, and grow the Army and Marine Corps over the next several years. That is why I am calling for funding annual defense budgets at no less than four percent of Gross Domestic Product - a plan supported by both Defense Secretary Robert Gates and Admiral Mike Mullen, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
   "I want to see an increase in funding for the National Institutes of Health, which supports so much of the groundbreaking and life-saving research and related jobs at North Carolina institutions.
   "I am pleased that this budget emphasizes the value of our national parks, as we in North Carolina treasure the numerous parks in our state and welcome the visitors that they attract.
   "Finally I appreciate the president's call for the line-item veto authority, which would provide the ability to strike wasteful spending measures from legislation in the interest of budget discipline.
   "We must remember that the president's budget is a blue print, and as we work through the congressional budget process, addressing North Carolina's priorities is my top priority."
   Some North Carolina-specific mentions in the president's budget proposal include:
   More than $670 million for military construction in North Carolina
   $1.96 million for Charlotte Rapid Transit
   $10.64 million for United States Post Office and Courthouse in New Bern
 
 