SEN. DOLE PROPOSES REGULATORY RELIEF FOR BANKS
  U.S. Sen. Elizabeth Dole, a member of the Senate Banking Committee, today introduced legislation that would eliminate costly regulations for qualified financial institutions. The legislation would allow qualified insured depository institutions, bank holding companies, and savings and loan companies to voluntarily opt out of two overly-burdensome requirements - Sections 302 and 404 - of the Sarbanes-Oxley corporate accountability law. 
   "We must ensure that businesses and shareholders receive benefits from these regulations that are commensurate with the burdens they create," said Dole. "This balance does not currently exist, and the costs of these requirements of Sarbanes-Oxley - while well intended - outweigh the benefits. We can preserve the rigorous oversight of the nation's banking industry without these unnecessary and costly regulations."
   Insured banks and savings institutions are regulated by federal and state agencies and subject to corporate accountability requirements that predate Sarbanes-Oxley, which was enacted in 2002. Specifically, the regulatory requirements of Sections 302 and 404 overlap previously existing regulations.
   Section 302 regulations require that all publicly traded companies include the certifications of their Chief Executive Officers and Chief Financial Officers regarding various matters, including internal controls, with each Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) report filed that contains financial statements. This adds an extra layer of paperwork for qualified financial institutions due to their regulation by federal and state agencies.
   Section 404 regulations require the annual preparation of reports by company management and its external auditor on the adequacy of the internal control framework. For many banks, this has been one of the most costly requirements because it involves extensive testing and documentation.
   Federal banking supervisory agencies include the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), Federal Reserve, Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), and Office of Thrift Supervision (OTS).
 
 