SEN. DOLE JOINS COLLEAGUES TO INTRODUCE BILL TO PREVENT GANG VIOLENCE
  Sen. Elizabeth Dole last week joined Sens. Feinstein and Hatch to introduce comprehensive anti-gang legislation. The Gang Abatement and Prevention Act of 2007 sets tougher federal penalties for those who commit gang-related and other violent acts and directly criminalizes and penalizes gang crime. The legislation provides $1 billion over five years for gang prevention, enforcement and witness protection programs.  
   "North Carolina has a rapidly growing gang presence, including MS-13, which is widely regarded as one of the most dangerous gangs in America," said Dole. "Gangs pose a serious threat to our communities' safety, and it is imperative that we give local, state and federal law enforcement officials the resources and tools they need to keep our families out of harm's way. And we must send a message to those involved in illegal gang activities that their behavior will not be tolerated." 
   The legislation would authorize funding for the expansion of a number of successful community anti-gang programs, including "Operation Ceasefire," a program that is already being used in High Point and Winston-Salem. Under that program, law enforcement officials work collaboratively with local schools, service providers and community and faith leaders to help prevent violent gang activities. 
   According to data from the North Carolina Criminal Justice Analysis Center, in 1999 there were 332 gangs and 5,068 gang members in North Carolina - and by 2004, those numbers had swelled to 387 gangs and 8,517 gang members. The largest concentrations of identified gangs were in the Triangle, the Charlotte metropolitan area and the Greenville-Pitt County area. The Piedmont Triad, Fayetteville and Wilmington also had significant gang presence. 
   The Gang Abatement and Prevention Act is endorsed by the National Sheriff's Association, the International Association of Chiefs of Police and the National Association of Police Officers.
 
 