SEN. DOLE INTRODUCES BILLS TO STRENGTHEN IMMIGRATION LAW, REPEAL COSTLY NON-ENGLISH SERVICES REQUIREMENT
  U.S. Sen. Elizabeth Dole today introduced two immigration bills - one eliminating the costly requirement of providing government services in languages other than English and one aimed at strengthening immigration law with regard to drunk driving convictions. 
   Dole's bill would repeal President Bill Clinton's executive order requiring the federal government to provide services in languages other than English - a requirement that is estimated to cost up to nearly $2 billion annually. Her measure also would help ensure that federal funds to local and state governments are not jeopardized by their providing English-only services.
   "Hundreds of different languages are spoken by people in this country, and it is fiscally irresponsible and impractical for our government to provide services in all of these languages," said Dole. "Moreover, proficiency in English should be encouraged, as it is not only required for citizenship but also is essential for maximizing opportunities in this country."
   Dole's other bill, the Safe Roads Enhancement Act, would amend the Immigration and Nationality Act to make a drunk driving conviction a deportable offense for illegal aliens and some temporary visa holders. The legislation also amends the INA to classify repeat drunk driving (more than two offenses) as an aggravated felony, and therefore a deportable offense for foreign nationals.
   "In North Carolina, we have had a number of fatal automobile accidents caused by an intoxicated person who was in the United States illegally," said Dole. "In several of these incidents, the illegal alien has a record of DWI, but has been caught and released. My bill would help ensure that undocumented aliens who have self-identified themselves by drunk driving are removed. Likewise, individuals who abuse their legal status in the United States by repeatedly breaking our drunk driving laws should lose their privilege of living in our country."
   Dole, a member of the newly-formed Border Security and Enforcement First Caucus, today joined her colleagues in introducing bills that address a number of enforcement and border security needs, such as completing the border fence, establishing mandatory minimum prison sentences for individuals convicted of entering the United States illegally and utilizing the National Guard for border control activities.
 
 