SEN. DOLE: OLDER AMERICANS HAVE SPECIAL NEEDS THAT MUST BE ADDRESSED BEFORE, DURING, AFTER A DISASTER
  Sen. Elizabeth Dole today made the following statement at a Senate Aging Committee hearing on meeting the needs of older Americans during a disaster:  
   Thank you, Chairman Smith, for calling this hearing today on such timely and critical issues. As a former President of the American Red Cross and as a senator from North Carolina, I've witnessed firsthand how easily hurricanes and other disasters can strip away property and possessions, threaten lives, and leave folks displaced. As everyone in this room knows all too well from the events of recent weeks, disasters can be especially devastating for our elderly citizens. 
   Many factors make our seniors more vulnerable in their daily lives - lack of mobility, chronic medical conditions that require daily medications and other treatments, isolation from family and friends, and limited financial resources - and it is these very vulnerabilities that put the elderly at extraordinary risk when disaster strikes. We must be ever mindful of the limitations that put our seniors at higher risk in a disaster, and prepare and plan accordingly. 
   Public and private partnerships at all levels of government are vital to reducing disaster suffering and damage. No single organization has the time, the people, or the financial resources to do all that needs to be done. Government agencies and organizations like the American Red Cross emphasize the importance of personal responsibility, urging businesses, schools and families to have an emergency plan in place. Seniors, and the ones who care for them, also must be strongly encouraged to have such a plan. Like everyone else, they readily need emergency phone numbers, blankets, cash, and a first aid kit - but many seniors also need oxygen, prescription drugs, and extra batteries for hearing-aids and wheelchairs. We need to encourage personal preparation for our seniors, as this would greatly minimize their stress and trauma in a disaster situation. 
   And of course, communication and information access also are critical in a disaster, not just to facilitate response and recovery efforts, but also to assist the victims. That is one of the reasons I am a strong supporter of 2-1-1, an easy to remember phone number that those who need assistance or want to volunteer can use to connect with community services and volunteer opportunities. 2-1-1 is currently available in 22 states, and I have cosponsored legislation that would expand this service nationally. 
   When someone calls 2-1-1, trained staff and volunteers analyze what services are needed from nonprofits, government agencies and other organizations, and then they quickly connect the caller with those services. In the Gulf Coast, 2-1-1 has served as a valuable resource for people devastated by Katrina and Rita. For example, in Louisiana, an elderly caller desperately needed his medication. He didn't have a doctor's prescription but he did have empty medicine bottles. The 2-1-1 call specialist got in touch with his local pharmacy and verified that it would supply his medicine. The call specialist quickly called the man back and gave him the information he needed to get his medication. 
   Like the elderly man in Louisiana who needed that medication, many of our older Americans have special needs that must be addressed before, during, and after a disaster. This committee has a unique responsibility to carefully consider these issues. I appreciate the presence of each and every witness here today and want to thank each of you for all you do to protect our older Americans in a disaster. Thank you.
   Contact: Lindsay Taylor, 202/224-6342.
 
 