SEN. DOLE: PRESIDENT'S BUDGET A GOOD BLUEPRINT, BUT FALLS SHORT ON CERTAIN NORTH CAROLINA NEEDS
  Sen. Elizabeth Dole made the following statements after reviewing the president's fiscal year 2008 budget, which was submitted to Congress yesterday: 
   "Overall, I believe the president has submitted a good budget that funds critical national priorities, such as fighting the Global War on Terror and keeping our economy competitive, and at the same time, holding the line on wasteful spending and extending tax relief for hardworking Americans. I am especially pleased that the president is working to balance the federal budget by 2012. 
   "The president's budget provides a good starting point, but it falls short with regard to some North Carolina needs. In particular, I am disappointed that funding was not included for shore protection projects and other crucial projects such as the deepening of Wilmington Harbor and dredging our Shallow Draft Navigation Inlets. I also have serious concerns about proposed funding changes to commodity programs that could negatively affect our state's farmers. In addition, I am concerned about the proposed decrease in funding for the LIHEAP program, which provides low-income North Carolinians with home energy assistance. 
   "Keeping in mind that the president's budget is simply a blueprint, I will work to address these and other areas important to our state as we work through the congressional budget process."  
   Fiscal Responsibility 
   "I am pleased that the president's budget proposes a legislative line item veto. This is a measure I have fought for since arriving in the Senate. A line item veto would allow the president to strike certain expenditures from massive spending bills in the interest of fiscal discipline." 
   Strengthening the National Defense 
   "I am very pleased that the budget focuses on our efforts to win the Global War on Terror. North Carolina's military strength is an integral component of this mission. I am also strongly supportive of the president's request for an additional $5.7 billion for the implementation of BRAC, as it is critical to our military's operational readiness and our national security that our bases and base communities have the funding to meet these new requirements. I am also encouraged that the president's budget calls for an increase in military pay and housing allowances and includes funding to increase the end-strength of the Army and Marine Corps. 
   "The president's budget also includes important funding for the training of Iraqi and Afghan security forces so that those forces can more fully ensure security in their own countries as soon as possible. Finally, I am pleased that the president's proposal, for the first time, attempts to budget for the cost of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, rather than fund those military operations through the use of emergency appropriations." 
   Border Security 
   "I am pleased that the president's budget addresses the critical need to secure our borders by significantly increasing funding for enhanced border security and immigration enforcement, including funding for 3,000 new Border Patrol agents. In addition, the budget includes funding for domestic counterterrorism, emergency preparedness and response, and detection of chemical, biological, and nuclear threats. 
   "I am encouraged that the budget includes $1 billion for new border security technology and infrastructure, $2.2 billion to support detention and deportation of illegal immigrants, and nearly $3 billion to enhance the security of our ports." 
   Housing 
   "I applaud the president for including $1.6 billion for homeless assistance grants, which will help North Carolina communities eliminate chronic homelessness and its causes by creating supportive housing options to meet individuals' special needs. The president deserves a great deal of credit for expanding homeownership opportunities, particularly for low-income and minority Americans; however, I am disappointed that the budget again did not allocate funding for the HOPE VI housing initiative. I have seen first-hand how HOPE VI is revitalizing neighborhoods in cities like Charlotte, Raleigh, Winston-Salem and Wilmington, and I will work to restore this important funding." 
   Education 
   "Our changing economy demands that Americans have the best education possible in order to compete in the 21st century. I applaud the president for proposing $325 million in Title I Education Grants to help North Carolina's students improve their college readiness, and I also support his proposal to significantly increase Pell Grants to college students." 
   Energy 
   "There is no question we must reduce our dependence on foreign oil, and to that end, I think the president's budget sets a good goal in investing in long-term research, technology and expanding nuclear power. For example, his budget provides $875 million for nuclear energy research and development, including approximately $405 million for the Global Nuclear Energy Partnership. " 
   "I am concerned that the president's budget allocates significantly less funding for the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP), which assists low-income families with unexpected home energy costs." 
   Agriculture and Rural Development 
   "I continue to support the president's efforts to open new markets to our farmers and their products. Our farmers produce the highest quality and safest food in the world, and I am pleased the president is committed to protecting our food supply from potential threats and emerging diseases. I am very concerned, however, that the president's budget proposes significant reductions in commodity payments - this could have negative impact on our North Carolina growers and I will be closely following this issue." 
   Environment 
   "North Carolina is home to many natural treasures, with our coast, mountains, forests and parks, and we all have a responsibility to ensure that these resources are protected for generations to enjoy. To that end, I am very supportive of the president's National Parks Centennial Initiative that would provide $3 billion in new funds over 10 years to improve and protect our national parks." 
   Keeping Communities Safe 
   "I am especially pleased that the president's budget contains $280 million to help communities stop child predators and address school safety and $370 million to curb domestic violence. The budget also calls for $350 million in funding to help cleanup methamphetamine labs, which is particularly important for North Carolina, where our law enforcement is combating the serious problem of methamphetamine production and abuse." 
   Foreign Affairs 
   "I applaud the president for his ongoing commitment to fighting HIV/AIDS across the globe. His budget proposal requests $5.4 billion for the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR,) which exceeds the commitment of $15 billion over five years, with a five-year total of more than $17.7 billion to PEPFAR's 15 focus countries. In addition, I am strongly supportive of the president's request to increase funding for humanitarian efforts in Sudan. A significant portion of this funding will go to support the implementation of the Darfur Peace Agreement."
 
 