SEN. DOLE INTRODUCES BILL TO REMEDY ECONOMIC DISTRESS IN NORTH CAROLINA, SOUTHEAST
  Sen. Elizabeth Dole today reintroduced the Southeast Crescent Authority (SECA) Act to assist economically distressed communities in North Carolina and other southeastern states. SECA would provide funding to spur economic development, establish priorities in development planning, support local development districts and encourage private investment in the region.  
   "Some areas in the rural south fall behind the national average in education, economic opportunity, healthcare access and infrastructure - this is unacceptable and must be remedied," said Dole. "The Southeast Crescent Authority would be a tremendous help to such areas by providing funding for economic development projects and creating opportunities for rural communities where poverty has for too long been prevalent." 
   Dole has already garnered bipartisan support for the SECA Act, with Sens. Bill Nelson (D-Fla.), Richard Burr (R-N.C.), Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.), Saxby Chambliss (R-Ga.), Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.), Trent Lott (R-Miss.), Thad Cochran (R-Miss.) and Mel Martinez (R-Fla.) cosponsoring her legislation. In addition, Dole has worked closely with the University of North Carolina on the SECA Act, as well as Rep. Mike McIntyre, who has led the effort in the U.S. House of Representatives by introducing similar legislation. 
   "Sen. Dole understands how important it is to get more people better educated," said Erskine Bowles, president of the University of North Carolina. "The University of North Carolina asked Sen. Dole to reintroduce the SECA legislation, and we are grateful for her leadership and commitment to help all North Carolinians, particularly those served by this legislation. If authorized, the Southeast Crescent Authority could inject millions of federal dollars into an area that desperately needs a helping hand." 
   Background 
   In 2001, East Carolina University published a study, A Proposal for Economic Growth in the Southeastern United States, which concluded that economic development assistance to the Southeast is necessary to ensure a reduction in poverty for distressed communities in the region. SECA will be a program similar to the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC), which has helped alleviate chronic and severe economic distress in the Appalachian counties of the United States. 
   The region impacted by the SECA Act encompasses millions of people in 429 counties across seven states: North Carolina, Virginia, South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama, Mississippi, and Florida. SECA would be organized and administered in a manner much like ARC. Each of the seven states' governors would serve on a board of directors with a federal co-chairman appointed by the president. The governors would select one of their members to serve as the state co-chairman. 
   North Carolina counties that would be eligible to benefit from the SECA Act include: Alamance, Anson, Beaufort, Bertie, Bladen, Brunswick, Cabarrus, Camden, Carteret, Caswell, Catawba, Chatham, Chowan, Cleveland, Columbus, Craven, Cumberland, Currituck, Dare, Davidson, Duplin, Durham, Edgecombe, Franklin, Gaston, Gates, Granville, Greene, Guilford, Halifax, Harnett, Hertford, Hoke, Hyde, Iredell, Johnston, Jones, Lee, Lenoir, Lincoln, Martin, Mecklenburg, Montgomery, Moore, Nash, New Hanover, Northampton, Onslow, Orange, Pamlico, Pasquotank, Pender, Perquimans, Person, Pitt, Randolph, Richmond, Robeson, Rockingham, Rowan, Sampson, Scotland, Stanly, Tyrrell, Union, Vance, Wake, Warren, Washington, Wayne and Wilson. 
   Dole's bill would authorize $40 million in funding over the next five years.
 
 