SEN. DOLE: PRESIDENT'S BUDGET FUNDS IMPORTANT NATIONAL PRIORITIES BUT FALLS SHORT ON CERTAIN NORTH CAROLINA NEEDS
  Sen. Elizabeth Dole today made the following statements regarding the President's Fiscal Year 2007 Budget, which was submitted to Congress today: 
   Overall, I believe the President has submitted a good budget that funds critical national priorities, particularly with regard to our national defense and economic competitiveness, while at the same time holding the line on wasteful spending.  
   However, I believe it falls short with regard to specific North Carolina needs. In particular, I am disappointed that funding for crucial projects including Wilmington Harbor, Oregon Inlet, Atlantic Intracoastal Waterway, and North Carolina's Shallow Draft Navigation Inlets was not included. 
   Keeping in mind that the President's budget is simply a blueprint, I will work to address these areas when we dig into the congressional budget process. We have already been in touch with folks in the state to determine their needs as we move forward. 
   Fiscal Responsibility, Economic Growth and Job Training 
  I am particularly pleased the President's budget holds the line on spending while including critical pro-growth policies. If we are going to reduce the deficit, we have to find out which programs are working and which programs are not. Reforming entitlement programs that continue to hemorrhage really is a key part of the equation. 
   I am pleased the President continues to recognize the gap that exists between skilled and unskilled workers and has committed to training workers for jobs of the 21st Century. We indeed have an opportunity to remain competitive by investing in research, workforce development, and math and science education. Funding for the President's American Competitiveness Initiative will go a long way toward providing opportunities for workers like those in North Carolina who very much confront the challenges of a transitioning economy. 
   While I am disappointed the President is requesting $100 million less than he requested last year for Community-Based Job Training Grants, this is still $26 million more than the current funding level. This funding is essential for our community colleges, as they work on the front lines to re-train our workers for new jobs where new skills are required. 
   Strengthening the National Defense 
   I am pleased that the budget places great emphasis on our efforts to win the War on Terror, because North Carolina's military might is an integral component of this mission. We must not only commit to a high level of readiness, the development of weapons systems and expansion of our missile defense capabilities, but ensuring a high quality of life for our military families cannot be underscored enough - this means increasing their basic pay, improving access to quality health care and eliminating inadequate housing. It also means providing our veterans with access to medical care and benefits, and I am very heartened that the President's budget reflects a 75-percent increase since 2001. 
   I am especially pleased to see the Administration's commitment to the Global Posture Initiative. Since the Cold War, our military has had to transition and adapt to fighting a different kind of enemy, which requires significant adjustment if we are going to be a more lethal and easily deployable force against the global terrorist threat. 
   Further, I applaud the $5.1 billion included for Special Operations Forces, including the establishment of Marine Corps Special Operations Command, which will be headquartered at Camp Lejeune. We all know how much we have relied on our courageous Special Operations components literally on the front lines in the War on Terror. 
   Border Security 
   The President recognizes this growing problem by increasing funding for enhanced border security and immigration enforcement, reflecting an increase of 29% over the current level [more than $3 billion, including funding for 1,500 new agents]. In addition, the budget includes funding for domestic counterterrorism, emergency preparedness and response, detection of chemical, biological, and nuclear threats. 
   I am also pleased that the budget includes $100 million dollars for new technology, including portable imaging machines, cameras, sensors, and automated targeting systems that focus on high-risk travelers and goods, in addition to $2.1 to support detention and removal efforts of illegal immigrants. 
   Health Care 
   I continue to be a strong supporter of Association Health Plans, so I am pleased the President's budget includes funding that would enable small businesses to purchase affordable health benefits for their workers. I am also glad that the President recognizes the great need for Community Health Centers in rural and high poverty areas. In addition, I believe the President's budget recognizes that we must remain vigilant against the threats of an influenza pandemic and other global disease. 
   Housing 
   I think the President deserves a great deal of credit for expanding homeownership opportunities, particularly for low-income and minority Americans. However, I am disappointed that the Administration again did not provide funding for the HOPE VI housing initiative. I have seen first-hand how this initiative is making a difference in cities like Charlotte and Raleigh, and I will work to restore this important funding. 
   Education 
   I applaud the President's increase of No Child Left Behind, Title I, Special Education, IDEA and Pell Grant funding, as well as his commitment to postsecondary students. Our changing economy demands that Americans have the best education possible in order to compete in the 21st Century. 
   Energy 
   There is no question we must reduce our dependence on foreign oil, and to that end, I think the President's budget sets a good goal in investing in long-term research, technology and expanding nuclear power. I am especially pleased the President's budget increases funding for the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP), to enable low-income families to meet unexpected energy costs. I am concerned about how increased funding could potentially affect the North Carolina coast in terms of proposed offshore leasing and exploration initiatives. 
   Agriculture and Rural Development 
   I continue to support the President's efforts to open new markets to our farmers and their products. Our farmers produce the best, safest food in the world and I am pleased the President is committed to protecting our food supply from potential threats and emerging diseases. I also applaud the President's commitment to rural development. I have seen first hand on numerous occasions how USDA Rural Development loans and grants are positively impacting North Carolina's rural areas by providing for much-needed infrastructure and economic opportunity. 
   Environment 
   I commend the President recognizing the challenges we face with a growing population and the demands that places on our environment. North Carolina is a national treasure with our coast, mountains, forests and parks, and we all have a responsibility to ensure that these resources are protected for generations to enjoy. This means focusing on cooperative approaches, cutting pollution, and investing in research and technology. 
   Keeping Communities Safe 
   I am especially pleased that the budget doubles the funding to help cleanup methamphetamine labs. The budget contains a $20 million increase in funding and is particularly important for our state, where production has increased dramatically.
   Contact: Lindsay Taylor Mabry, 202/224-6342.
 
 