SEN. DOLE PRESSES ARMY LEADERS ON WALTER REED CONDITIONS
  Sen. Elizabeth Dole today attended a Senate Armed Services Committee hearing examining patient care and conditions at Walter Reed Army Medical Center. Recent press reports revealed poor conditions in the outpatient health care at the facility, which treats many service members wounded in Iraq and Afghanistan.  
   Dole made the following statement at the hearing: 
   "We know that Walter Reed has a reputation for providing world-class care for our wounded soldiers. Doctors, nurses, and other medical personnel at Walter Reed provide extraordinary care to service members at this facility. 
   "It is this excellent reputation that makes these recent revelations all the more appalling. I have to believe that a profound failure of leadership at many levels is responsible for these deplorable conditions. 
   "Everyone from the top down, from the people overseeing Walter Reed to the nurses' aides, must above all else think first of the patient. If that concern is compromised, even the best facility in the world can quickly become cold and inhospitable, potentially undermining the quality of care. " 
   This committee has the responsibility - to our service members and to their loved ones - to thoroughly examine what has happened at Walter Reed and to ensure that every mistake is corrected and every wrong is made right - so that our nation's heroes are always treated with the dignity and care they so richly deserve. 
   In the hearing, Dole asked Gen. Peter Schoomaker, Chief of Staff of the Army, how leaders for Army medical centers are selected and whether that process needs improvement. She also questioned whether any budget pressures had contributed to leaders' failures to speak up about the poor conditions at Walter Reed, to which Gen. Schoomaker responded that "there was no financial impediment to do what was right here."
   Listen to Radio Clip at http://src.senate.gov/public/_files/radio/dolewaltereed03_06_07.mp3
 
 