LEGISLATION WITH BUYOUT INCLUDED PASSES CONFERENCE, NOW UP FOR FINAL VOTE
  Today a final version of the FSC-ETI Act, with a tobacco buyout included, was passed by the House-Senate Conference Committee, and the bill now will go before both chambers for a final vote. Sen. Dole has made securing a buyout a top priority in the Senate. 
   "Today is a historic day for thousands of farm families and countless rural communities who desperately need a tobacco buyout to prevent the negative economic ripple effects of further quota cuts," said Dole. "We have cleared hurdle after hurdle in progressing a tobacco buyout - it is now time to get it passed and to give our farmers the relief and opportunity they deserve."
   The buyout provides payments of $7 per pound to quota holders and $3 per pound to growers. The payments, based on the 2002 quota level, would be distributed over a ten-year period. The funds required will be obtained from manufacturers and importers of all tobacco products sold in the United States and will total $10.14 billion. North Carolina quota holders are expected to receive $3.9 billion of that amount.
   In July 2003, Senator Dole, along with a bipartisan group of senators from tobacco-producing states, introduced the Tobacco Market Transition Act. This legislation served as the basis for what was agreed to in Conference today.
   Background
  The House is expected to vote on the bill Thursday, and a vote by the Senate is expected Friday.
   Since 1997, quota has dropped almost 60 percent. Without a buyout, according to noted agriculture economist Blake Brown, tobacco farmers would face a minimum 33% cut in quotas for the 2005 crop year.
   The tobacco buyout is attached to a corporate tax bill called the FSC-ETI (Foreign Sales Corporation - Export Trade Incentives) Act. The bill repeals European tariffs on many American-made products-many of which are made in North Carolina. And this legislation also cuts taxes for U.S. manufacturers.
   Contact: Brian Nick, 202/224-6342.
 
 