SEN. DOLE COSPONSORS GAS PRICE ACT TO ENCOURAGE CONSTRUCTION OF NEW REFINERIES
  Sen. Elizabeth Dole today announced that she is a cosponsor of the Gas Petroleum Refiner Improvement and Community Empowerment (PRICE) Act. The Gas PRICE Act provides incentives through the Economic Development Administration (EDA) to build new refineries at Base Closure and Realignment Commission (BRAC) sites that have been closed or designated for closure.  
   "Like most North Carolinians, I too have been very concerned about the rising cost of oil and natural gas, especially after two devastating hurricanes affected many of our nation's refineries," said Dole. "Higher fuel costs makes everything from filling up cars to transporting goods significantly more expensive, and as winter approaches, many families are worried about having to reach deep in their pockets just to pay home heating bills." 
   "The Gas PRICE Act provides a creative solution to address our nation's fuel challenges by expanding our nation's refining capacity while at the same time empowering states and local communities to create new high-paying jobs where military jobs have been lost," said Dole. 
   Currently, 90 percent of the U.S. gasoline supply comes from the 148 refineries in the United States, which have a combined production capacity of about 17 million barrels per day. The quickly growing demand for gasoline can only be met by increasing domestic refinery production or further relying on foreign gasoline imports. 
   Highlights of the Gas PRICE Act 
   Provides EDA incentives to build refineries at BRAC sites, including an 80 percent federal share for refinery projects at BRAC sites and an automatic 10 percent bonus to recipients. 
   Does not require any change of environmental laws. 
   Establishes an opt-in program for state governors requiring the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to coordinate all permits for construction or expansion of refineries. 
   Establishes a grant program through the EPA to identify and use methane emission reduction technologies. 
   Calls for waivers from use of "boutique" fuels, or special fuel blends, during emergencies as deemed by the state rather than the EPA. 
   Requires the EPA to establish a demonstration project to use diesel and jet fuels as an emission control strategy.
   Contact: Lindsay Taylor, 202/224-6342.
 
 