SEN. DOLE WELCOMES SELECTION OF SHERIFFS DUNCAN, DAVIS TO STEERING COMMITTEE FOR SHERIFFS' STATEWIDE PARTNERSHIP PLAN
  U.S. Sen. Elizabeth Dole today applauded Buncombe County Sheriff Van Duncan and Henderson County Sheriff Rick Davis for their selection to the steering committee for the statewide partnership plan for sheriffs to coordinate with Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), part of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. This plan, which is the first of its kind nationally and resulted from discussions facilitated by Dole between North Carolina sheriffs and ICE, will ensure that North Carolina sheriffs can readily access the tools that they need to identify and help process undocumented aliens who have self-identified themselves by committing crimes. ICE will provide programs and services that will support the specific needs of sheriffs throughout the state. 
   "I welcome the selection of Sheriff Duncan and Sheriff Davis to the committee, and I thank them for their service," said Dole, who was present for the plan's unveiling at the North Carolina Sheriffs' Association fall meeting in October. "Through this unique partnership with federal officials, our sheriffs can utilize the available tools to enforce our laws and help ensure that people feel safe in their homes and communities. There are many important considerations involved in the immigration debate, but no question, weeding out this criminal element is the urgent matter at hand, and I believe that North Carolina can become a national model for success on this front."
   The steering committee, which held its first meeting Wednesday in Raleigh, will work with partnering agencies to develop appropriate timelines and decide how to best leverage tools under the ICE ACCESS (Agreements of Cooperation in Communities to Enhance Safety and Security) program. Services and resources include: the Law Enforcement Support Center (LESC), which helps identify criminal aliens; ICE's Criminal Alien Program (CAP), which locates criminal aliens processed through jails and prisons; Operation Community Shield, which targets and arrests gang members; joint document and benefit fraud task forces to impede identity theft; and the delegation of 287g authority.
   Other sheriffs on the steering committee include Cabarrus County Sheriff Brad Riley, Dare County Sheriff Rodney Midgett, Duplin County Sheriff Blake Wallace, Gaston County Sheriff Alan Cloninger, Johnston County Sheriff Steve Bizzell and Wake County Sheriff Donnie Harrison.
   After working to twice defeat the Senate immigration bill, which would have provided amnesty to the estimated 12 to 20 million people who live here illegally, Dole sought other avenues by which to address the serious concerns of thousands of North Carolinians who contacted her. She and her staff reached out to all 100 North Carolina sheriffs, including 40 sheriffs Dole met with personally in August. She quickly realized that many were facing similar challenges when it came to illegal aliens committing crimes in their communities. She relayed that information to ICE and facilitated discussions for ICE and the sheriffs to develop this plan.
   In an example of North Carolina law enforcement agencies' significant interest in such a partnership, ICE received more North Carolina requests for 287g, which allows local law enforcement to receive training and authority from ICE to help process criminal illegal aliens, than from any other state. Mecklenburg, Alamance, Gaston and Cabarrus Counties have already entered into 287g Memorandums of Agreement (MOAs) with ICE.
 
 