SEN. DOLE INTRODUCES LEGISLATION TO REMEDY ECONOMIC DISTRESS IN NORTH CAROLINA, SOUTHEAST U.S.
  Sen. Elizabeth Dole today introduced the Southeast Crescent Authority (SECA) Act, legislation to help remedy severe and chronic economic distress in areas of North Carolina and elsewhere in the Southeast U.S. The program would provide grants to states in the Southeast to spur economic development, establish priorities in a development planning, support local development districts, and encourage private investment in the region. The bill is similar to legislation introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives by Rep. Mike McIntyre. Sen. Dole has been working with Rep. McIntyre as well as East Carolina University in crafting the legislation.  
   "This legislation would be a tremendous help to local governments, particularly small, rural ones," said Dole. "The Southeast Crescent Authority would provide funding for worthwhile projects geared to economic development and will create great opportunities for rural communities that have been severely hit."" 
   In 2001, East Carolina University published a study, A Proposal for Economic Growth in the Southeastern United States, which concluded that economic development assistance to the Southeast is necessary to ensure a reduction in poverty for distressed communities in the region. The SECA will be a program similar to the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC), which has helped alleviate chronic and severe economic distress in the Appalachian counties of the United States. Since its inception, the ARC has cut in half the number of counties plagued by economic distress. Portions of North Carolina, Virginia, South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama, Mississippi, and Florida not covered by the ARC will be eligible for SECA aid. 
   SECA would encompass approximately 40 million people in 428 counties across seven states, and would be organized and administered in a manner much like the ARC. Each of the seven states governors would serve on a board of directors with a federal co-chairman appointed by the president. The governors would select one of their members to serve as the state co-chairman. The bill would authorize $40 million in funding over the next five years.
 
 