SEN. DOLE: FEMA DECLARES DISASTER FOR NORTH CAROLINA COUNTIES AFFECTED BY HURRICANE OPHELIA
  Sen. Elizabeth Dole this evening announced that Acting FEMA Director David Paulison has notified her that the following North Carolina counties affected by Hurricane Ophelia will receive public assistance aid under Categories A and C - G: including Brunswick, Carteret, Craven, Dare, Duplin, Hyde, Jones, New Hanover, Onslow, Pamlico and Pender. All counties in the state of North Carolina will also be eligible to apply for assistance under the FEMA Hazard Mitigation Grant Program. Dole has continued to push for the remaining categories of assistance.  
   "I am pleased that FEMA has recognized the great need for this declaration - we have certainly been pushing for it. While Hurricane Ophelia was not as powerful as it could have been, our coastal communities still took quite a beating and suffered some significant flooding and structural damage. Our beloved North Carolina coast is an economic engine for our state, because it is enjoyed by folks from all over the country who choose it as a vacation spot. We need to ensure that these areas can recover as quickly as possible. 
   "I was heartened by all the precautionary measures agencies and officials made as we tried to anticipate what effects Ophelia would have on the state," said Dole. "I commend folks in the affected communities for continuing to make their needs known as they continue to recover from the storm." 
   Background 
   In the aftermath of devastation caused by Hurricane Katrina, many North Carolinians were nervous about the approach of Hurricane Ophelia. Senator Dole took action to help ensure that North Carolina would be prepared and that the government's response would be swift, effective, and comprehensive. With the storm approaching, Dole contacted FEMA officials to be assured that teams would be in place. Dole also spoke with Governor Mike Easley, Senator Richard Burr, Congressman Walter Jones and Congressman Mike McIntyre to keep in close communication. 
   After the storm, Senator Dole contacted President Bush to thank him for declaring a federal emergency in North Carolina so that immediate and short term assistance could be available to affected areas. She also asked him to get aid to the coastal region as quickly as possible. Representatives from Senator Dole's office coordinated daily with FEMA, the North Carolina Division of Emergency Management, and the Governor's Office on Preparation to keep abreast of changes and to provide assistance. 
   Senator Dole's office has also been in contact with the Department of Energy, the U.S. Coast Guard and the U.S. Marines, and other federal agencies to guarantee North Carolina's quick recovery from the storm. On September 22, Senator Dole joined Governor Easley in requesting the president to declare a major disaster so that North Carolina can receive 100 percent of federal assistance.
 
 