SEN. DOLE MEASURE GETS TOUGH ON COUNTRIES THAT BLOCK U.S. COURT-ORDERED REMOVAL OF ILLEGAL ALIENS
  Last night the Senate approved the Department of State, Foreign Operations and Related Programs Appropriations Bill, which included measures backed by U.S. Senator Elizabeth Dole.  
   The Senate approved Dole's amendment that would prevent the State Department from issuing visas to citizens of countries that decline to accept their nationals when U.S. courts order them removed from the United States. As a result of such barriers, 14 percent of Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) detention space is filled by illegal aliens whose countries block or inhibit their court-ordered removal from the United States. 
   "I recently met with dozens of sheriffs across North Carolina, and one of their main concerns is the lack of detention space to hold illegal aliens when they are apprehended for committing a crime," said Dole. "It is unacceptable that uncooperative countries are failing to take back their nationals when U.S. courts order them removed. I hope my amendment will help lift this significant burden from our already scarce detention space and resources." 
   During fiscal year 2003 (the most current data available), the detention of criminal and non-criminal aliens from the top eight uncooperative countries* cost the United States over 981,000 detention days and $83 million. 
   In addition to getting her amendment accepted in the appropriations bill, Dole successfully secured $32 million for the U.S. Agency for International Development's Polio Eradication Initiative. Dole has been a strong proponent of this initiative of USAID, along with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), to immunize children, particularly in Africa and Asia, against polio. Since the global initiative was launched in 1988, two billion children have been vaccinated, five million have been spared disability and more than 250,000 deaths have been averted from polio. 
   "U.S. leadership has been critical to improving the effectiveness of immunization campaigns," said Dole. "I am proud to continue to work with my Senate colleagues to ensure that our nation maintains its strong commitment to eliminating polio from the world." 
   *Top eight uncooperative countries in fiscal year 2003 were: Vietnam, Jamaica, Iran, India, Ethiopia, Eritrea, China and Laos.
 
 