SEN. DOLE APPLAUDS APPROVAL OF SENATE RESOLUTION SUPPORTING MISSION OF THE NATIONAL GUARD
  Sen. Elizabeth Dole, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today applauded Senate approval of a resolution, which she cosponsored, calling for full funding of the equipment needs of the National Guard and asking that the Administration make sure that any restructuring of the National Guard not negatively impact the safety and security of the country. The measure requests that the Department of Defense seek input from Congress, the nation's governors, and adjutant generals when considering future changes to National Guard personnel.  
   "As the Global War on Terror continues, our Guardsmen and women are called upon more and more," said Dole. "With this year's Quadrennial Defense Review underway, we will be taking a good hard look at our defense strategy, force structure, and budgets. I will continue to work with my colleagues on the Armed Services Committee to ensure than any restructuring enhances the role that the National Guard plays in protecting our national security, both abroad and here at home." 
   Recently, Senator Dole was presented the National Guard Association of the United States' Charles Dick Medal of Merit for her continuing support of the North Carolina National Guard. Maj. Gen. William E. Ingram Jr., the Adjutant General of the North Carolina National Guard, presented the award during a ceremony in Raleigh on Friday, February 3. 
   The Charles Dick Medal of Merit is a prestigious award established in 1988 by the National Guard Association of the United States to recognize the contributions to the National Guard of elected representatives at the state and national levels. An individual must have distinguished him or herself over an extended period of time in their support to the National Guard, and their contributions must be such that they will outlast the recipient's term in office. The award is one of only 17 Charles Dick Awards for Merit that will be presented this year throughout the nation.
   Contact: Lindsay Taylor Mabry, 202/224-6342.
 
 