SEN. DOLE DELIVERS FLOOR STATEMENT MARKING 60TH ANNIVERSARY OF VICTORY AT IWO JIMA
 Sen. Elizabeth Dole today delivered the following remarks on the Senate floor in remembrance of the victory at Iwo Jima.
  During her remarks, Senator Dole commemorated the heroic actions of Marines during the Battle of Iwo Jima. She highlighted the brave contributions of her own brother, John Hanford, who was aboard the U.S.S. Saratoga when it was struck by multiple kamikazes. Additionally, she lauded the heroic actions of a North Carolinian, Private First Class Jacklyn Lucas, the nation's youngest Medal of Honor Recipient of the 20th century and the youngest Marine ever to receive that award. 
   Senator Dole, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, also recognized 41 Marine lieutenants about to graduate from basic officer training and join units around the globe. 
   Below is the text of Senator Dole's remarks on the Senate floor. 
   Senator Elizabeth Dole 
  Floor Statement 
  Remembering Iwo Jima 
  Tuesday, March 8, 2005 
   Mr. President, this month marks the 60th anniversary of the victory at Iwo Jima. That battle is remembered as one of the bloodiest in Marine Corps history. Approximately 70,000 American and 22,000 Japanese troops engaged in a month long battle for the Pacific Island that was critical to the air bombardment of mainland Japan. The heroic achievements of our nation's warriors throughout this treacherous battle attest to the courage and character not only of the brave men who fought there, but of our nation as a whole. 
   The island of Iwo Jima consists of coarse volcanic sand that impeded the movement of men and machines as they struggled up the beach. Unable to dig fighting holes, the Marines were sitting ducks for the Japanese gunners hiding in a network of caves. Suribachi, the 550-foot volcanic mountain at the island's southern end, allowed Japanese gunners to zero in on every inch of the landing beach. Blockhouses and pillboxes flanked the landing areas, leading historians to describe the attack as "throwing human flesh against reinforced concrete." The 36-day assault on Iwo Jima resulted in more than 23,200 Americans wounded, and another 6,800 who paid the ultimate price. 
   The battle, which involved the largest number of Marines committed to a single operation during World War II, featured superior service cooperation. The Navy-Marine Corps team functioned as a model of efficiency. To make victory possible, more than 450 ships massed in the surrounding waters. Among those ships was the aircraft carrier U.S.S. Saratoga, and on board that ship was my brother, John Hanford. Having graduated from Duke University and joined the Navy at 19, he became an aviation supply officer. John's battle station was a 20 millimeter gun battery, where he led a 15-man team. Tasked with laying an impenetrable curtain of anti-aircraft fire, the 20 millimeter batteries provided the ship's last line of defense from attacking Japanese Zeros and kamikazes. 
   The Saratoga was part of the legendary Task Force 58, commanded by the superb strategist, Vice Admiral Marc Mitscher, who executed a diversionary air bombardment of Japan on the initial days of the Iwo Jima assault. On February 21st, the Saratoga and three destroyers moved south, to provide direct air support for the Marines on Iwo Jima. Although the 20 millimeter batteries were effective out to a mile, the low cloud layer that day as the Saratoga came on station, forced my brother and the rest of the crew to mount a desperate, close-in defense of the ship. 
   In full view of Mt. Suribachi, the Saratoga was subjected to two waves of Japanese air attacks. During the first wave, her radar picked up a large threat, estimated at 20 to 25 planes. Despite the deadly anti-aircraft fire, within three minutes three bombs plunged into the Saratoga, immediately followed by four kamikaze hits.
   Her crew fought fires blazing in the hangar deck, and her planes were directed to land on the nearby escort carriers. Roughly two hours later, five kamikazes targeted her again. Four were shot down but one dropped a bomb, which exploded over her flight deck before the plane itself bounced over the side. During the air attacks, the crew could see the U.S.S. Bismarck being struck by a kamikaze and minutes later sinking with a crew of 218 aboard. The Saratoga's losses were 192 sailors and Marines wounded, 123 killed or missing. And, as a youngster growing up in Salisbury, North Carolina, I well remember my revered big brother coming home on what was called "survivor's leave." 
   Though extremely costly, the ability to launch and recover aircraft on Iwo Jima was critical to the strategic bombing campaign and ultimately to the American victory in the Japanese theater. The island's capture served to increase the operating range, payload, and survival rate of the big bombers. While the monthly tonnage of high explosives dropped on Imperial Japan increased eleven-fold during March alone, the greatest value of Iwo Jima was to serve as an emergency landing field for crippled B-29s returning from bombing runs. By war's end, a total of 2,400 bombers carrying over 27,000 crewmen made forced landings on the island. Without control of Iwo Jima, many of these men would have been lost at sea. Noted one B-29 pilot, "whenever I landed on the island, I thanked God for the men who fought for it." 
   One of the many heroes of the fierce land battle was Private First Class Jack Lucas, born and raised in North Carolina. He is the nation's youngest Medal of Honor recipient of the 20th century and the youngest Marine ever to receive that award. Anxious to fight for his country, this son of a tobacco farmer forged his mother's signature and enlisted in the Marine Corps at age 14. Frustrated with an assignment to a training command, he stowed away on a ship bound for Iwo Jima. Six days after his 17th birthday, he and three other men were attacked by grenades. The men jumped into a shallow hole; as a grenade landed next to them, Private Lucas threw his body over it. When another grenade landed close by, Private Lucas pulled it under him and absorbed the blasts of both grenades with his body, saving his fellow Marines from certain injury and possible death. Miraculously, he survived. Bob and I have had the privilege of several visits with Jack and his wonderful wife. 
   Private Lucas is a representative of what's been hailed as "The Greatest Generation." As evidenced by America's triumphs in numerous conflicts since World War II, the traits, the spirit of the Greatest Generation have certainly been passed on. Today, approximately 14,000 Marines of the Second Marine Expeditionary Force, based in North Carolina, are in the process of deploying to Iraq to continue fighting for freedom. And Mr. President, I am very proud to recognize 41 Marine lieutenants who are sitting in the gallery before you. These young men and women are the newest bearers of the torch of freedom so proudly carried by the Iwo Jima veterans. This platoon of recently commissioned officers is about to finish training, and in a few short months many of them will find themselves in direct combat supporting the Global War against Terrorism.
   I applaud their selfless act, volunteering to serve our nation during this time of war; they represent our nation's best. I have no doubt that these young officers will have the privilege of leading many men and women who possess the same qualities of tenacity and valor displayed by Private Lucas. 
   I could not agree more with Jack Lucas who recently said "I am so proud of the people who serve today, whether in peacetime or in war. You can't do anything better than serve America...I love our government and our military and I think it's the most honorable thing a man or woman can do". 
   The battle of Iwo Jima resulted in 27 Medals of Honor being awarded to Marines and sailors, many posthumously, more than awarded for any other operation during World War II. Commander of the Pacific Fleet, Admiral Chester Nimitz, immortalized the spirit of the battle noting that "among the Americans who served on Iwo Island, uncommon valor was a common virtue." The Marines present here today, as well as all of our military members serving around the globe, are continuously making sacrifices to protect our freedoms. I am certain that they, too, possess the uncommon valor which has made our nation so strong in the past - - and will keep her strong well into the future. 
   Thank you, Mr. President. I yield the floor.
   Contact: Lindsay Taylor, 202/224-7905.
 
 