SEN. DOLE TAKES ACTION FOR TEXTILE INDUSTRY
  Sen. Elizabeth Dole today announced that she has contacted the heads of the U.S. Departments of Homeland Security and Commerce and asked for an explanation as to why funding designated to stop illegal textile smuggling is not being used as intended and also called for the expedited release of import trade data.  
   In her letter to Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff, Senator Dole called for the department to explain why money Congress designated for new Customs agents specifically assigned to keep out illegal textile transshipments is not being used by U.S. Customs for that very purpose. During the past two years, Senator Dole has helped secure congressional funding for the hiring of these agents but has recently learned of textile industry reports that not a single new agent had been hired. 
   "Funding for these positions was provided in the FY2004 and FY2005 Homeland Security appropriations bills. It is my understanding from reports by the textile industry that not one single new agent has been hired as a result of these actions. There is much concern that Customs personnel in the textile enforcement division, previously responsible for quota data entry and monitoring, may have been simply redeployed to other divisions within Customs now that quotas have been removed against China, rather than trained as enforcement agents." 
   Senator Dole in letter to Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff, March 7, 2005 
   In her letter to Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez, Senator Dole urged the department to expedite the release of import trade data so that the China safeguard mechanism can be used effectively. Under the safeguards, China has agreed not to create harmful surges of textiles into the United States. 
   "The China safeguard mechanism needs to be used in a seamless manner that provides for prompt action on import data compiled by the International Trade Administration. A system needs to be developed that allows public access to trade data and regulations in a timelier manner. The current delays and lengthy administrative process is unacceptable. The industry and the Department of Commerce need to know how and when import surges enter the United States. Moreover, once China realizes the United States is serious about using the safeguard mechanism, it will be more likely to agree to a comprehensive agreement on textile imports."
   Contact: Lindsay Taylor, 202/224-7905.
 
 