SEN. DOLE TO GOV. EASLEY: N.C. SHOULDN'T BE ON LOSING END OF SCHIP BILL
  U.S. Sen. Elizabeth Dole wrote to Gov. Mike Easley encouraging him to call on the delegation to push for an end to political posturing on the reauthorization of the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP). The continuing funding resolution, which includes support for SCHIP, ends on November 16, 2007. 
   The current SCHIP bill, which faces a second presidential veto that will likely again be sustained, is funded by a tobacco tax hike that would cause our state to lose nearly $600 million due to significant decreases in manufacturing, farm production, tax revenues and our Master Settlement Agreement share. Additionally, although North Carolina's health care program for low-income children is working, other states have expanded their programs beyond SCHIP's original intent, and the existing bill does not address these costly problems.
   Dole strongly supports reauthorizing and responsibly expanding SCHIP in a way that does not disproportionately hurt North Carolina. Below are excerpts from her letter:
   "I encourage you to call on all members of the delegation to push for an end to the political posturing on SCHIP. The White House and Congress - Democrats and Republicans - all must come together to craft a bill that provides a sustainable funding source, enrolls the neediest children first and most importantly, can be signed into law so that North Carolina's health care program for low-income children can continue."
   "Our state's program, Health Choice, has remained true to the original intent of providing health care coverage to low-income children. Many other states, however, have expanded their programs to cover adults and children in families earning up to 350 percent above the federal poverty level. The current SCHIP bill fails to address these significant and costly problems."
   "The funding mechanism to pay for the expansion of the current SCHIP bill - a massive tobacco tax hike - lands squarely on the shoulders of North Carolina manufacturers and farmers. I cannot support a $35 billion tax increase that disproportionately harms North Carolina jobs."
   "Hard working North Carolinians deserve for their representatives to support their livelihoods and work to find a way to fund SCHIP that is not detrimental to their jobs and families. Furthermore, our state deserves much better than a bad SCHIP bill that allows other states to continue to abuse a broken system - and then burdens North Carolina's economy to foot the bill."
 
 