SEN. DOLE: INACTION ON MEDICAL LIABILITY REFORM THREATENS FUTURE OF OUR HEALTH CARE SYSTEM
  Sen. Elizabeth Dole today expressed deep disappointment that the other side has blocked medical liability reform legislation. In late afternoon votes, the Senate was unable to move forward on two medical liability bills, one that addresses the issue broadly, and another targeted to obstetrics and gynecology - one of the most high risk specialties. Nationally, one in seven OB-GYNs has stopped practicing obstetrics due to the risk of liability claims - putting many women and their babies at risk. 
   "Our nation faces an escalating crisis that is preventing Americans from receiving the access to quality affordable medical care they deserve," said Senator Dole. "This crisis threatens the very future of our world-renowned health care system. Frivolous lawsuits are forcing physicians to abandon their practice - nearly crippling the system - and jeopardizing the ability of families to receive affordable care."  
   At a news conference with Senate leaders and several hundred OB-GYNs this afternoon, Dole urged action on medical liability reform legislation, citing the urgent situation confronting North Carolina. The American Medical Association has declared the state in crisis - meaning that each day more North Carolinians are losing access to critical care because of frivolous lawsuits. 
   "Women in North Carolina and around our nation deserve better," said Senator Dole. "They deserve access to affordable, quality health care - and we need to pass legislation that will tackle this escalating crisis." 
   Dole highlighted a number of OB-GYNs in North Carolina who have been forced out of practice by exorbitant liability premiums, including: 
   Dr. Mary-Emma Beres, an OB-GYN in Sparta, North Carolina, a small town in the mountains of North Carolina with a population just under 2,000. Dr. Beres had to stop delivering babies after facing a 300 percent increase in her malpractice premiums. Her departure left only one obstetrician to handle high-risk cases, and it meant some women who needed C-sections had to endure a 40 minute ambulance ride to another hospital for their baby to be delivered. 
   Dr. Arthur Apolinario, an obstetrician in Clinton, North Carolina, a small town with a population of just over 8,000. Dr. Apolinario has had to stop delivering babies after malpractice premiums doubled. Dr. Apolinario is a young physician who has always wanted to work in an underserved community - and he is being driven away from the patients he loves to serve. As a result of Dr. Apolinario being forced to stop providing obstetric care, women in his small community in Sampson County now have only limited access to care, and many of his patients, who are mostly poor, are forced to travel many miles to seek medical attention. 
   Dole also emphasized that this medical crisis is deterring some of the best and brightest from entering threatened fields like obstetrics and gynecology. In fact, in 2004 only 65 percent of OB-GYN residency slots were filled nationwide. 
   Dole pointed to Dr. Charles Hammond, a faculty member at Duke University Medical School and a former president of the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecology. Dr. Hammond has seen that the liability environment today is causing medical students to shy away from vital specialties like OB-GYN. Instead, medical students are forced to choose specialties that are not likely to bring them astronomical insurance premiums and near-certain litigation. As older physicians retire in fields like OB-GYN, neurosurgery, and ER medicine, and new graduates can't afford to take their place, patients across America are feeling the brunt of what is clearly a deepening problem affecting access and cost.
   Contact: Katie Norman, 202/224-6342.
 
 