SEN. DOLE URGES SWIFT SENATE COMMITTEE APPROVAL OF 2-1-1 LEGISLATION
  Sen. Elizabeth Dole today called for swift Senate passage of the Calling for 2-1-1 Act. Mentioning examples of 2-1-1's contribution to Hurricane Katrina relief efforts, Dole submitted a statement at a roundtable discussion held by the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions (HELP) urging the committee to approve the 2-1-1 legislation as soon as possible. Dole earlier led a bipartisan group of nine Senators in writing to the HELP committee to ask the committee to schedule a mark-up at the earliest possible date.  
   "As we have seen in the devastated areas of our Gulf Coast, efficient communication is critical to overcoming a crisis," said Dole. "Installing 2-1-1 nationally would provide just that-a well-organized service where anyone offering volunteer assistance or in need of community services can turn, where they will find the answers they need." 
   The points Dole emphasized include: 
   * As former president of the American Red Cross, Senator Dole is keenly aware of the importance of having a reliable system of communication in place following a disaster so that vital information can reach those in need, as well as those seeking to volunteer. 
   * The United Way is leading the effort to secure 2-1-1 as a resource for families and individuals in the areas affected by Hurricane Katrina, as well as the areas managing the relocation of evacuees. In Louisiana, 2-1-1 has emerged as a critical tool in recovery effort, as the state has actively promoted 2-1-1 as the number to call to receive help, give help, or ask questions related to the effects of Hurricane Katrina. 
   * 2-1-1 is a valuable service with tremendous benefits for victims in the days following a disaster. Unfortunately, many communities have been unable to implement a 2-1-1 system in their area due to a lack of sustainable funding. If 2-1-1 is already in place across our nation before crises strike, the rebuilding process can begin even sooner. 
   Background 
   Senator Dole is a lead sponsor of the 2-1-1 Act, which would support states with federal funding to implement 2-1-1 nationally. 2-1-1 provides an easy to remember and universal number those who need any sort of assistance or want to volunteer can use to connect with community services and volunteer opportunities. The most critical barrier for communities seeking implement 2-1-1 is sustainable funding. Current funding for 2-1-1 comes from diverse sources including non-profits, state governments, foundations, and businesses. Federal funding for 2-1-1 would help areas without 2-1-1 implement the service. 
   There are 2-1-1 calling centers in fifteen NC counties (Forsyth, Guilford, Randolph, Rockingham, Davie, Chatham, Durham, Orange, Wake, Henderson, Transylvania, Buncombe, Cabarrus, Mecklenburg and Union). In the aftermath of Pillowtex, the Charlotte 2-1-1 centers organized health and human services for 1,500 displaced workers. The service is already available in 22 states and serves 65 million people, approximately 23% of the U.S. population. This bill is currently in the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, awaiting mark-up.
   Contact: Lindsay Taylor, 202/224-6342.
 
 