DELEGATION ANNOUNCES OPENING OF THREE NEW VETERANS CLINICS IN NORTH DAKOTA BY OCTOBER
  Sens. Byron Dorgan and Kent Conrad and Rep. Earl Pomeroy announced Monday that the Secretary of Veterans Affairs has given final approval to the opening of new veterans' outpatient clinics in Dickinson, Williston and Jamestown by September 30, 2006.  
   "We've been working for a long time to bring these clinics to North Dakota, and this will significantly improve health care for our veterans in North Dakota," Dorgan said. "Our veterans have served this nation with honor, yet have been required to drive hundreds of miles to receive proper care. These new clinics will help fulfill our commitment to them." 
   "America's veterans have done their duty. Now it's time for us to do ours," Conrad said. "We have a responsibility to these brave men and women. We have a moral obligation to provide veterans with quality health care in a timely manner. These new clinics will ensure North Dakota's veterans receive the care and support they need." 
   "Each veteran has earned access to quality healthcare and soon they won't have to cross the state to get it," said Pomeroy. "We owe a huge debt to our veterans and these clinics are a positive step forward." 
   Currently, the VA operates community outpatient clinics only in Grafton, Minot, and Bismarck. Though the Capital Assessment Realignment for Enhanced Services Commission recommended in 2004 that five new veterans' health clinics be opened in the state of North Dakota, the new facilities were delayed because of funding shortfalls in the Administration's budget. 
   Under pressure from the North Dakota delegation, the VA agreed to open three new clinics and said they hope to open clinics in Devils Lake and at the Grand Forks Air Force Base by the fall of 2007. 
   The new North Dakota clinics could dramatically reduce driving distances and wait times for veterans trying to access health care. Only 37 percent of the veterans residing in North Dakota are currently within the one-hour driving time guideline for primary care and hospital care.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 