SEN. DORGAN HONORS EERC'S GROENEWOLD AT WASHINGTON RECEPTION
  At a reception in Washington, DC, Thursday night, Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) presented Dr. Gerry Groenewold, Director of the Energy and Environmental Research Center (EERC) at the University of North Dakota, with a top national award for his world-class leadership in energy research.  
   Groenewold received the Excellence in Innovation award from the Alliance to Save Energy (ASE), which Dorgan chairs. In its 27-year history, the group has proven to be one of the foremost leaders in the world on efforts to improve energy efficiency through technology, research and public policy. 
   Dorgan, a member of the Senate Energy Committee, has chaired ASE's board since November 2001, and has helped to steer millions in research funding to the EERC as a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee. Recently, he helped the center get $3 million for hydrogen technology development. Dorgan said Groenewold is a driving force behind that effort. 
   "From Grand Forks, North Dakota, Dr. Gerry Groenewold is laying the bricks and mortar for our nation's future energy policy with his innovation and relentless drive to look to what comes next," Dorgan said. "Lessening our country's dependence on foreign oil is now a matter of national security. Thanks to the top-notch research being done at EERC under Gerry's guidance, the nation can look forward to a future of hydrogen fuel cells, biomass, and wind energy." 
   ASE attributes its choice of Groenewold to his leadership of the EERC, saying that since he took the reins in 1987, "this center has become world-renowned for pursuing practical, market-driven approaches with its national and international clientele to saving energy and protecting the environment." The group also cites his efforts to reduce dependence on foreign oil with technologies for advanced coal utilization systems, emission capture, fuel cells, renewable energy, CO2 emissions reduction and to minimize the use of water.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Sanjay Talwani, 202/224-2551. 
 
 