SEN. DORGAN CALLS DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION RULING ON 'HIGHLY QUALIFIED' TEACHERS 'BONEHEADED'
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) told Education Secretary Roderick Paige in a phone call Friday that he either needs to fix the problem causing 3,800 North Dakota elementary education teachers to be unqualified under the No Child Left Behind Act or the law should be scrapped.  
   Dorgan reacted to the Department of Education's finding that 3,800 North Dakota elementary school teachers-who have college degrees in elementary education and have been licensed by the state-do not necessarily meet the definition of "highly qualified." He said the decision was "completely devoid of common sense." 
   "These elementary school teachers in North Dakota have met all of the state standards for determining whether a teacher is qualified to teach," Dorgan said. "Many of them have spent 10, 20 or 30 years in a classroom, which is meeting the ultimate test for good teachers. And yet, the Department of Education is telling North Dakota officials that somehow these 3,800 elementary school teachers must now justify their abilities to be in compliance with the No Child Left Behind Act. This decision blindsides our state and undermines several thousand good teachers, and we shouldn't stand for it." 
   In a letter to Secretary Paige that followed up the phone call, Dorgan said, "It is this kind of thinking at the Department of Education that will force us to scrap the No Child Left Behind program. Mr. Secretary, either fix this problem now, or join me in deciding to scrap this program and start over." Dorgan said he told Paige he wants the Secretary to personally investigate the issue and reverse what Dorgan calls a "brain-dead ruling that tells a lot of wonderful teachers who've taught for one, two, and three decades that they're not highly qualified." 
   Dorgan said he expects to hear back from the Secretary next week and that he will continue to pursue the issue until the right decision is made. 
   To view Dorgan's letter to Secretary Paige: See http://dorgan.senate.gov/newsroom/extras/121004paige.PDF 
   To hear Senator Dorgan speak about this and other issues: Go to http://dorgan.senate.gov/newsroom/newsaudio.cfm
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Sanjay Talwani, 202/224-2551.
 
 