SEN. DORGAN OFFERS BILL TO CAP TRADE DEFICIT, REQUIRE ACTION TO REDUCE IT IF LIMIT BREECHED
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND), the Ranking Member of the Senate Trade Subcommittee, Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton (D-NY), and Rep. Ben Cardin (D-MD), the Ranking Member of the U.S. House Trade Subcommittee introduced legislation Thursday to cap the nation's trade deficit and require action to reduce it whenever that limit is reached.  
   They offered their bill hours after the U.S. Commerce Department announced the nation's annual trade deficit in 2004 reached $617.7 billion, a new record. Under terms of their legislation, the White House would be required to take immediate action to reduce the trade deficit if the trade deficit exceeds 5% of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) or foreign debt climbs above 25% of GDP. Today's announced trade deficit is 5.3% of the 2004 GDP. 
   "This morning's announcement, that the United States had a $617 billion annual trade deficit in 2004, is devastating news for the American economy," Dorgan said. "This kind of trade deficit is unsustainable and could have long term, serious consequences for future economic growth in the U.S. and for job creation," Dorgan said. 
   Congress and the President long ago put a ceiling on the national debt, but there is no limit on the trade deficit or foreign debt. "This other kind of debt is just as dangerous to our economy, but has been routinely ignored," Dorgan said. "With these debt levels moving into uncharted territory, and with the potential consequences so severe, we simply must take action." 
   The bill would, for the first time, impose a statutory limit on the trade deficit and on U.S. foreign debt. The White House would be required to monitor those levels every quarter. If either level is breeched, the U.S. Trade Ambassador would be required, within 15 days, to convene a plan of action to reduce the trade deficit, and to send that plan to Congress for action within 45 days. 
   Within 15 days of either of those caps being breeched, the bill would require the U.S. Trade Representative to convene an emergency meeting of the Trade Policy Review Group to develop a plan of action to reduce the trade deficit. Within 45 days after the breech, the Administration must present the plan developed by the Trade Policy Review Group to Congress for action.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Sanjay Talwani, 202/224-2551.
 
 