SIGNIFICANT BIPARTISAN DRUG IMPORTATION LEGISLATION INTRODUCED IN SENATE
  Sens. Byron Dorgan (D-ND), Olympia Snowe (R-ME), and Reps. Jo Ann Emerson (R-MO), and Rahm Emanuel (D-IL) today introduced critical drug importation legislation that will reduce the cost of prescription drugs in the United States. The Pharmaceutical Market Access and Drug Safety Act, which has garnered broad support from more than 30 groups, including AARP and Families USA, would save American consumers an estimated $50 billion over the next 10 years.  
   "We want to put downward pressure on the price of prescription drugs," U.S. Senator Byron Dorgan said. "Currently, the big drug manufacturers can monopoly price their medicines here, and as a result, American consumers pay the highest prices in the world for prescription drugs. The fact is, miracle drugs perform no miracles for people who can't afford them. It's time to stand up for all Americans and make prescription medicines more affordable by putting an end to monopoly pricing and putting market price competition to work." 
   "It is indisputable that Americans pay far too much for prescription drugs and the cost of brand name drugs is continuing to increase," Snowe said. "This legislation leaves no stone unturned to assure that the importation of prescription drugs will be safe and meet the requirements of the Food and Drug Administration, while delivering real savings to American consumers. Consideration and passage of this legislation in the Senate is long overdue, and this must be the year we move forward together to ensure access to medication is both affordable and safe." 
   "An overwhelming majority of Americans support importation to lower the cost of prescription medications and this bipartisan legislation is one way Congress is working to give the American people the kind of affordability they deserve," Emanuel said. "People from around the world come to America for first class medical care, but Americans need to travel around the world for affordable medications. Today, American consumers pay as much as 55 percent more for the same brand name medicines sold in other industrialized nations. Legalizing the importation of prescription drugs and opening our captive prescription drug market will drive down prices and bring lifesaving prescription drugs to Americans at prices they can afford." 
   "The high cost of prescription drugs in the U.S. demands that we improve Americans' market access to safe, affordable supplies of medicines. In the past, the House of Representatives has made a bipartisan commitment to the concept of importation, and I look forward to a new opportunity to pass legislation. All Americans, especially senior citizens living on fixed incomes, deserve access to the medicines they rely on for good health," said U.S. Representative Jo Ann Emerson. 
   The legislation would allow individuals to directly order medications from outside the U.S. when using a Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-registered and approved Canadian pharmacy. FDA would examine, register and inspect these facilities on a frequent basis. It would also allow U.S. licensed pharmacists and wholesalers to import FDA-approved medications from a number of major industrialized nations and pass along the savings to their customers. The FDA would also ensure the highest standards for such essential functions as recording medical history, verifying prescriptions, and tracking shipments.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 