SEN. DORGAN PRESENTS U.S. MINT DIRECTOR WITH LEWIS AND CLARK BAR FROM NORTH DAKOTA
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) and the Director of the U.S. Mint exchanged Lewis and Clark commemoratives in Washington, D.C. as the first summer season of the multi-year Lewis and Clark Expedition Bicentennial begins. The head of the U.S. Mint presented Dorgan with a commemorative Lewis and Clark silver dollar. Dorgan returned the favor by presenting a Lewis and Clark candy bar, manufactured by a Mandan, North Dakota candy maker, Lindy Sue's Candies. 
   The exchange took place in Dorgan's Washington, D.C. office. U.S. Mint Director Henrietta Holsman Fore traveled to Capitol Hill to present Dorgan with the commemorative dollar. Dorgan was a sponsor of legislation authorizing the Lewis and Clark Bicentennial Dollar, of which the Mint expects to produce about 500,000 for sale to collectors. Two-thirds of the proceeds of sales of the limited-edition coins go to the Lewis and Clark Bicentennial Council and the remainder will be allocated to help support the National Park Service.
   Dorgan presented the North Dakota produced candy bar to Fore as a token of efforts underway in North Dakota to help celebrate the Lewis and Clark Bicentennial. "We're excited about the Bicentennial in North Dakota, and welcome the U.S. Mint's new effort to honor the expedition with a limited production, very high quality commemorative dollar," Dorgan said. "It's sure to add to the efforts to draw the attention of Americans to this important time in our nation's history."
   The commemorative silver dollar coin features an image of Lewis and Clark at a stream bank, with Lewis holding his famed journal and Clark pointing at a landmark. The reverse side of the coin depicts the Jefferson Peace medal, surrounded by 17 stars representing the 17 states of the Union at the time of the Lewis and Clark Expedition. The explorers presented the Jefferson Peace Medals as gestures of goodwill to American Indians they met during the journey.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 