SEN. DORGAN ASKS PRESIDENT TO DROP PLAN TO IMPORT ETHANOL
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) and other farm state lawmakers are urging President Bush to drop plans to make it easier to import ethanol from outside the country to meet the growing U.S. demand for the fuel. 
   Bush has proposed repealing the tariff on imported ethanol.
   In a letter to the President, Dorgan, along with Senators Tim Johnson (D-SD), Tom Harkin (D-IA), Barack Obama (D-IL) and Dick Durbin (D-IL), urged the President to drop the plan which they said "would be a serious mistake that would undermine a carefully targeted U.S. tax incentive promoting the growth and development of our domestic renewable fuels industry."
   "Our focus must be on building energy security through domestically produced renewable fuels," the lawmakers wrote.
   "What the President wants to do really doesn't make sense," Dorgan said Wednesday. "We need to decrease our dependence on foreign energy supplies. Ethanol, which we can produce from grain grown on farms in North Dakota and throughout rural America is a big part of how we do that effort. The U.S. ethanol industry - and the potentially huge new market it represents for farmers - is just beginning to take off. It makes no sense to undercut it, and our efforts to become energy independent, by making it easier and cheaper to import ethanol from other countries."
   Dorgan helped lay the ground work for the strong new growth of the domestic ethanol industry during last year's consideration of the Energy bill last year. He authored a provision that established a new national "Renewable Fuels Standard," (RFS) which requires refiners to use at least 7.5 billion gallons of ethanol in their gasoline blends annually by 2012. U.S. consumers currently use about 3.6 billion gallons of ethanol per year. Dorgan said the RFS is already spurring new ethanol production in North Dakota and throughout rural America, providing a new market for farmers and new, well-paying jobs in rural areas.
   "We're on the right path with ethanol now," Dorgan said. "We need to stay on it and continue to build this industry here at home and to keep working our way toward energy independence."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 