SEN. DORGAN HAILS NEW ADM PLANT NEAR VELVA, SAYS IT'S PART OF HISTORIC TURNING POINT ON ENERGY
  U.S. Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND), a member of the U.S. Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, was here Wednesday to help cut the ribbon on a major new Archer Daniels Midland (ADM) bio-diesel plant. He said the new facility is a "major boost" for North Dakota's economy and a sign of the state's growing role in making America more energy independent.  
   "What is happening here today will one day be seen as part of a crucial turning point for our country," Dorgan said, "when we began to build the energy industries that ended our nation's addiction to foreign oil and helped secure our energy future by allowing us to use renewable fuel we produce right at home." 
   As a member of the Energy and Natural Resources Committee, Dorgan co-authored legislation that set a national goal of using 7.5 billion gallons of renewable fuels like ethanol and bio-diesel by 2012. The idea was to let producers like ADM and others know there would be a renewable fuels market, encouraging them to make the necessary investments to ensure robust production. 
   That goal was thought to be a lofty one when it was signed into law in 2005, Dorgan noted. But the growth of the new renewable fuels industry since then has been so great that the 7.5 billion gallons goal will likely be reached within the next 18 months. So, this year Senator Dorgan helped write legislation that will raise the bar even more - setting a new national goal of using 36 billion gallons of renewable fuels by 2022. "We are on track, thanks to companies like ADM and communities like Velva that are stepping up and doing their part to make our country less dependent on foreign oil," Dorgan said. 
   Producing more renewable fuels here at home is only part of the equation, Dorgan said. "Adequate infrastructure that allows people to use renewable fuels is also vital. Today, only one percent of the nation's gasoline stations have a renewable fuels pump, and less than three percent of our vehicle fleet is capable of burning renewable fuels. That's our next challenge." 
   Dorgan said he is working with Senate colleagues to develop and introduce legislation, perhaps as early as yet this month, to ensure that flex fueled vehicles and renewable fuel pumps are more widely available to allow people to use the increasing supply of renewable fuels.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt, and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 