SEN. DORGAN CALLS FOR 'COP ON THE BEAT' TO KEEP SPECULATION FROM DRIVING UP OIL PRICES
  At a Senate hearing Tuesday, U.S. Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND) said there is substantial evidence that rampant speculation in the futures markets has driven up oil prices as much as $30 per barrel above the price that current supply and demand would justify. 
   Dorgan and Senator Carl Levin (D-MI) co-chaired a joint hearing today of the Senate Energy Subcommittee and the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations.
   The two senators heard from witnesses who alleged that speculative trading in the commodity exchanges by hedge funds, investment banks and others has pushed the price of oil far above that which is justified. Mr. Fadel Gheit, managing director and senior energy analyst at Oppenheimer & Co., said at the hearing there is no justification for the current price of oil to be above $55 per barrel.
   Dorgan said excessive speculation by hedge funds and investment banks into these futures markets has driven up oil prices and has cost all Americans a substantial amount of money as they fill their gas tanks. All American consumers are feeling the pain of these price hikes, but people in rural states are hit the hardest, Dorgan said. The average North Dakotan uses twice as much gasoline as the average New Yorker, and therefore is hit twice as hard by the huge price increases.
   Dorgan, Levin and other senators have introduced legislation to stop excessive speculation that drives up the price of commodities and would require oversight of large energy commodity traders by the Commodities Futures Trading Commission.
   "The dramatic increase in the price of oil during the past year cannot be explained by supply and demand relationships," Dorgan said. "It is speculative traders using legal loopholes to exploit their market power and they profit by driving oil prices higher and higher. I believe that's wrong, and we need effective federal regulation to put a stop to it."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 