SEN. DORGAN ENLISTS STATE DEPARTMENT HELP TO PAVE WAY FOR CRITICAL NORTH DAKOTA WATER PROJECTS
  U.S. Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND) is asking the U.S. State Department to take a lead role in discussions with Canada to clear the way for two water infrastructure projects that are critical to future economic development in North Dakota. 
   Dorgan, Chairman of the U.S. Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee, said the participation of the State Department would be the best approach to respond to objections from the Canadian federal government to two projects that would ensure a reliable supply of water to communities in the Red River Valley and northwestern North Dakota. He released a letter sent to Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice requesting her participation in consultations on the issue.
   Dorgan also released publicly a letter from Canada's ambassador to the United States, Michael Wilson, objecting that a project to bring Missouri River water to the Red River Valley could result in a transfer of water between two separate hydrologic basins. Canada has raised similar concerns about the Northwest Area Water Supply (NAWS), which would improve access to water in Minot and other communities in the region.
   "We have agreed to filter the water that comes from our water projects in North Dakota in order to address Canada's concerns," Dorgan said. "It is not reasonable for their objections to continue, and the delay only hurts North Dakota families and businesses that are depending on this water resource. I'm asking Secretary Rice to engage in consultations on this issue so we can get these water projects completed."
   "If communities in North Dakota don't have access to water, our economy stops growing. I believe it's time the State Department took an active role in this issue so we can get these projects moving," he said.
   The NAWS project received $9.84 million through Dorgan's subcommittee this year to continue construction. An environmental impact statement (EIS) concluded that the project would pose very little danger of inter-basin transfer of invasive species. A draft EIS on the project to bring Missouri River water to the Red River also found little danger of biota transfer.
   Dorgan said he intends to convene meetings with State Department officials and Ambassador Wilson in the next two weeks to help pave the way to complete the water projects.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 