NORTH DAKOTA LEADERS MEET WITH AIR FORCE SECRETARY, OTHER TOP OFFICIALS
  Sens. Kent Conrad and Byron Dorgan and Rep. Earl Pomeroy led a delegation of Minot City leaders to the Pentagon today for a face-to-face meeting with Air Force Secretary Michael Wynne on the advantages of keeping, and possibly expanding, an active bomber force at Minot Air Force Base. Wynne assured the group that the Air Force plans to retain Minot Air Force Base as a station for bombers, and that the base will continue to be an important part of the nation's force structure for decades to come.
   Minot Air Force Base is in a strong position for growth, having passed through the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) process unaffected. The House has passed and the Senate is expected to consider later this summer a military construction bill that could mean as much as $170 million in new family housing at the base, and earlier adopted an amendment to the Defense Authorization bill that mandated modernizing the nation's Minuteman III missile force - 150 of which are based at Minot. 
   At issue is funding for the so-called "attrition reserve" of B-52 bombers, 17 of which are assigned to Minot Air Force Base. Senate Republicans have threatened to block funding, despite the bomber's heavy use in combat campaigns in Afghanistan and in Iraq. The Congressional delegation and Minot's city leadership went to the Pentagon today to make the case that the full wing of B-52s should be maintained - and that Minot is in a strong position for any new potential missions. Joining the delegation to represent the city of Minot at the meeting were Pete Hankla, Mark Jantzer, John McMartin, Melvin "Buzz" Syria, Richard White, and Mayor Curt Zimbelman.
   "Minot is in excellent shape for expansion from its current missions as a base for both ICBMs and the Minuteman III missiles. We've invested more than $470 million in improving Minot's infrastructure, making it a world-class air base," Senator Conrad said. "Today's meeting was positive because I believe we made the case that with this investment, and our unlimited potential for expansion, Minot is in an ideal position to expand and take on new missions."
   "We had a good meeting today with some of the Air Force's top officials, and Secretary Wynne assured us that the Minot Air Force Base will continue to host bombers and be an important part of our nation's force structure for decades to come," Dorgan said. "Our B-52 fleet is the most cost-effective fleet in the military. The aircraft have years of life left, and we took the message to the Pentagon that it makes sense for our nation's security to keep our B-52s active."
   "The ICBM and B-52 wings in Minot are critical components to our national defense. Minot has the infrastructure, airspace and tremendous community support to play that vital role well into the future," said Congressman Pomeroy. "We had an opportunity today to make the case once again of Minot's exceptional capabilities directly to the Air Force Secretary. Secretary Wynne and other top Air Force generals recognize what Minot brings to the table of our military."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 