SENS. DORGAN, SNOWE SAY VOTE DEMONSTRATES SENATE SUPPORT FOR IMPORTATION OF LOWER PRICED PRESCRIPTION DRUGS FROM CANADA
  Sens. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) and Olympia Snowe (R-ME) said Tuesday's vote by the U.S. Senate to bar the U.S. Customs and Border Protection agency from enforcing the ban on re-importing lower priced prescription medicines from Canada underscores the broad support for lifting the ban entirely. 
   Dorgan and Snowe, who have offered legislation to do just that, said they'll insist that the Senate vote on allowing prescription drug imports this year.
   "The 68-32 vote on the question of whether Customs should be prohibited from enforcing the ban once again makes clear there is a big majority in the Senate ready to vote to allow Americans access to lower priced prescription medicines," Dorgan said. "Yet, the Bush Administration and the Senate Majority Leader continue to block such a proposal from coming to a vote on the Senate floor. That preserves the huge profits for the drug companies that monopoly-price their products here, but does nothing to make prescription drugs more affordable for millions of Americans. The Senate must be allowed to vote on this."
   "With two-thirds of the Senate supporting this amendment today, it is clear that the will is there to pass drug importation legislation to reduce the burden of skyrocketing drug costs on Americans across the country," said Snowe. "Despite years of legislative efforts, our constituents continue to wait for the federal government to act. This is a federal issue and the fact is, we can import prescription drugs in a manner that protects their safety and security for the American people. The time has come for the Senate to act."
   On Tuesday, the Senate voted to approve an amendment offered by Senator David Vitter (R-OK) and Bill Nelson (D-FL) which would prohibit the Customs and Border Protection agency from spending money to enforce the current prohibition on individual importation of prescription drugs from Canada.
   Dorgan voted for the amendment, adding, what the Senate really needs to do is vote to remove the prohibition entirely, "something the Senate is clearly prepared to do, if the White House and the Majority Leader would stop obstructing what is clearly the will of the Senate and the will of the people."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 