SEN. DORGAN ANNOUNCES $3 MILLION FOR FOSSIL FUEL RESEARCH AT EERC IN GRAND FORKS
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) announced Friday the U.S. Department of Energy has agreed to provide $3 million in federal funding for research at the University of North Dakota Energy and Environmental Research Center (EERC) into cleaner, more efficient ways to use coal and other fossil fuels. 
   Dorgan said the funding - which comes in addition to $2.5 million announced earlier this week for hydrogen research at EERC - will provide another boost to the EERC's efforts to find cleaner, more efficient ways to use fossil fuels, especially the lignite coal that is abundant in North Dakota. The funding will support 50 full-time positions at the EERC.
   Dorgan is chairman of the Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee, which oversees the Department of Energy program that provided the funding. Since he launched the Research Corridor in 2002, Dorgan has secured more than $300 million in federal funding to support high-tech projects in North Dakota.
   "This funding will allow the EERC to continue some valuable work that supports not only our work in the Research Corridor, but also the lignite industry in western North Dakota," Dorgan said. "We will depend on our coal resource to help achieve our nation's goal of energy independence, but as we do so we need to find cleaner ways to burn it that reduce emissions and capture the greenhouse gases. This work is an important step in that process, and I'm proud I could help secure this funding for this critical research."
   "The partnership between the EERC and DOE represents a model that is urgently needed to ensure for all Americans the benefits of national energy security through domestic energy resources, including unconventional sources," said EERC Director Gerald Groenewold. "Since the beginning of that partnership 24 years ago through fiscal year '06, DOE has invested $37.9 million in 199 projects, totaling $92.9 million of cofunded research," he said.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt, Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 