TOP BIOTECHNOLOGY SCIENTIST TO DISCUSS RENEWABLE FUELS RESEARCH AT DORGAN-HOEVEN ACTION SUMMIT
  As scientists search for new, better ways to produce fuel from our farm fields, some are employing the same biotechnology tools and techniques they developed to map the human genome - this time in an effort to revolutionize the production of ethanol and other renewable fuels. One of those scientists, Dr. Arthur Katz, will be a featured speaker at the Renewable Fuels Action Summit hosted by Gov. John Hoeven and Sen. Byron Dorgan in Bismarck. 
   Dr. Katz is an MIT-trained physical scientist at the U.S. Department of Energy Office of Biological and Environmental Research, the same agency that initiated the Human Genome Project in 1986. The agency's scientists are now using the expertise that shaped the modern biotechnology revolution to search for breakthroughs in basic science that would make the production of renewable fuels more efficient.
   Dorgan and Hoeven said the participation of Dr. Katz at the Action Summit, which will be held May 20 and May 21 at Bismarck State College, will add the perspective of a scientist at the forefront of renewable fuels research to the discussion of ways to boost North Dakota's renewable fuels industry.
   "The participation of Dr. Katz in the Renewable Fuels Action Summit will give us an important new voice in our discussion about where the renewable fuels industry is going and how we can help it grow here at home," Senator Dorgan said.
   "In addition to Dr. Katz, the conference will feature other outstanding presenters, as well as local entrepreneurs and North Dakota companies that are developing biofuels projects and deploying new energy technologies right here in our state," Governor Hoeven said.
   The Action Summit will also feature keynote speeches from nationally known experts in renewable fuels, including James Woolsey, Vice President of Global Resilience at Booz Allen Hamilton, and John Mizroch, Principal Assistant Secretary of the U.S. Department of Energy Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy.
 
 