SEN. DORGAN ANNOUNCES AGREEMENT PAVING WAY FOR THEODORE ROOSEVELT LIBRARY AT DICKINSON STATE UNIVERSITY
  U.S. Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND) announced Tuesday that Dickinson State University (DSU) and the Library of Congress have reached an agreement to digitize Theodore Roosevelt's papers - paving the way to the establishment of a Theodore Roosevelt Library at DSU. 
   Dorgan is working with DSU officials to establish a "virtual library" at the school that would allow academics and other visitors to study the former president's legacy. Roosevelt's papers - which span the years 1760 to 1993 and include family papers, general correspondence, speeches, writings and subject files - are held on 485 rolls of microfilm at the Library of Congress.
   The agreement reached by DSU and Library of Congress officials will use $50,000 in federal funding secured by Dorgan, a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, to make digital copies of those papers that can be studied in Dickinson. Dorgan secured the funding in the Fiscal Year 2008 Omnibus Appropriations bill, which was signed into law in December.
   "Theodore Roosevelt had strong ties to North Dakota. He once said he could not have been President were it not for his time in our state, and I think it's appropriate that we establish a place in western North Dakota to honor him and allow students of history to examine his writing," Dorgan said. "Dickinson State has gained a national reputation for its study of Roosevelt, so there could be no place more perfect for a digital library. This new resource will only strengthen that reputation and improve the school's value to its students and the community."
   "We are very grateful to Senator Dorgan for his support of our efforts to establish a Roosevelt Library at Dickinson State University. His support has been critical to the realization of our goal of establishing a Roosevelt Center, the core of which will be a digital library," said Dr. Lee Vickers, President of Dickinson State University. "This agreement between the Library of Congress and Dickinson State University will enable the university to undertake a project that, thanks to the technological innovations of our time, will overcome space, time and expense. Theodore Roosevelt will be studied more and understood better by scholars, students and interested citizens throughout the world. Roosevelt's time in the Dakotas was formative, if not transformative, and the university is committed to broaden the awareness and importance of his time in North Dakota. The Roosevelt Library at Dickinson State University will serve as a magnet for scholars and travelers to visit the campus and experience the rich history and cultural heritage of Southwestern North Dakota."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 