HOUSE, SENATE APPROVE $74 MILLION TO STRENGTHEN NORTH DAKOTA BASES
  Sens. Byron Dorgan and Kent Conrad and Rep. Earl Pomeroy announced today that the U.S. House and Senate have approved the nation's annual military construction spending bill. The legislation includes tk million for projects at Minot Air Force Base, Grand Forks Air Force Base and for the 119th Fighter Wing of the North Dakota Air National Guard in Fargo.  
   "North Dakota's bases have long been considered among the best in the nation. Passage of this bill only enhances that fact, directing millions of dollars for new housing for our airmen and their families, training facilities, and improvements to the hangars for our B-52 bombers," Senator Conrad said. "This funding is a real shot in the arm and will help North Dakota's bases remain at the top of their game as the Pentagon prepares for another round of base closures." 
   ""Our military bases in North Dakota, and the men and women who serve on them, are second to none," U.S. Senator Byron Dorgan said. "This legislation recognizes that level of excellence and makes substantial investments to continue that level of performance on very important missions. This bill strengthens our country and our state's economy, as well as the importance of retaining North Dakota's military bases in any future round of base closing." 
   "This military construction bill will improve the quality of life for those serving at North Dakota's Air Force bases," Pomeroy said. "This kind of investment by the federal government speaks volumes about our bases' importance to our country." 
   Specifically, the funding package includes $26.2 million for 90 family housing units on Grand Forks Air Force Base and $37 million for 142 family housing units at Minot Air Force Base. The bill also provides $8.9 million for alterations to a multi-purpose hangar for B-52s at Minot Air Force Base. That project includes a 64-foot addition to the front of the existing hangar, allowing full enclosure of the aircraft. Currently, the planes are too long for the hangar, which complicates maintenance and fueling operations during high winds and winter. The base has 35 B-52s, but only two hangars that can fully enclose the plane. For the 119th Fighter Wing (Happy Hooligans) in Fargo, the bill provides $700,000 for planning and design of a new fire-and-rescue and deployment training facility to improve the base's emergency response capability. 
   The Military Construction Appropriations Bill for Fiscal Year 2005 goes next to the President, who is expected to sign it quickly into law.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Sanjay Talwani, 202/224-2551.
 
 