SEN. DORGAN PRAISES SUCCESS OF TELEPHARMACY PROGRAM AT NORTH DAKOTA STATE COLLEGE OF SCIENCE
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) announced today the North Dakota Telepharmacy Project has reached a milestone, now serving 50 rural communities since he helped launch the project in 2002. Dorgan made the announcement at the North Dakota State College of Science (NDSCS), which trains professionals to operate the project.  
   The North Dakota Telepharmacy Project is run by the North Dakota State University College of Pharmacy. It uses videoconferencing technology to connect pharmacists at central hub sites to registered pharmacy technicians, who fill customers' prescriptions at satellite locations. The pharmacy technicians are trained at NDSCS, which also plans to offer the training under a distance learning program that allows students can take the courses from home. 
   Dorgan first leveraged money for the project in 2002, using his seat on the Senate Appropriations Committee. Since then, he has secured a total of $2.95 million in federal funding for the project, and said it has proven to be a valuable asset for small communities that would not otherwise have pharmaceutical services. It's also a valuable addition to Dorga's Red River Valley Research Corridor, creating between 40 and 50 jobs while adding $12 million to the economies of the rural communities who now receive the service. The project began in 2002 with 10 sites, and recently reached the 50 community milestone with 17 central hubs and 33 remote sites. 
   "This is a project that addresses two of the most important issues facing North Dakota: access to health care services and job creation," Dorgan said. "As Main Street pharmacies across North Dakota have been forced to shut their doors, we have helped fill the void with the use of technology. And in the process, we ensure rural communities access to a trained technician onsite and a trained pharmacist via satellite. It really is a remarkable development in this area, and I am so proud to see how the money I first sent to this program has spread across the region." 
   Dr. Sharon Hart, president of NDSCS, said the telepharmacy initiative is a good example of how school continues its long history of service to North Dakota and the Red River Valley and also fulfills its mission of using innovative educational delivery methods. "Thanks to Senator Dorgan's visionary leadership, NDSCS is part of an outstanding project that uses technology to serve North Dakota and also to interact with our students," Hart said. "So many capable people live in North Dakota's rural areas. This ongoing project helps NDSCS reach those people with the training and information that helps them develop meaningful careers. And it fills a need for the state. North Dakotans are the winners here."
 
 