HIGH TECH RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT FORGING NEW ECONOMIC FUTURE FOR NORTH DAKOTA
  High technology research and development will play an increasingly important role in North Dakota's economic future, Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) said Monday. As a result, more young people will increasingly be able to remain in North Dakota and raise their families here, he said, as the high tech effort creates new good paying jobs and new industries to the state.  
   Dorgan, a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, has steered over $150 million in federal funding for high tech research and development to North Dakota colleges and universities in the past several years as he works to build the Red River Research Corridor. He spoke Monday at the Upper Great Plains Technology Conference and Trade Show which he sponsored at the Fargodome in Fargo. 
   "New and emerging technologies mean the death of distance," Dorgan told the conference, "and that opens a whole new era for economic development and opportunity for North Dakota. As our role in the nation's high tech research and development effort grows, so does opportunity for North Dakota young people who want to stay here, raise their families here, pursue their careers here, and become a part of our future instead of somebody else's." 
   The conference convened Monday and continues through Tuesday. It features a wide range of nationally recognized speakers who are innovators in business and technology. Among the conference keynote speakers: Steve Largent, National Football League Hall of Fame receiver, former U.S. Congressman, and president and CEO of the Cellular Telecommunications and Internet Association; Meg Whitman, president and CEO of eBay; Michelle Peluso, president and CEO of Travelocity; and Tami Reller, Corporate Vice President of Microsoft Business Solutions in Fargo. 
   Also, Jim Barry, the Consumer Electronics Association's "Digital Answer Man" is set to provide answers to technology questions at a demonstration and social on Monday evening. 
   More than 200 exhibitors from North Dakota and around the country are also part of the conference, showcasing on going high tech research and commercialization efforts.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Sanjay Talwani, 202/224-2551.
 
 