DELEGATION, GRAND FORKS LEADERS MEET WITH TOP AIR FORCE BRASS
  Senators Byron Dorgan and Kent Conrad and Congressman Earl Pomeroy were joined by a delegation from Grand Forks today in meeting with Air Force leadership to discuss the potential for the emerging Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) missions at Grand Forks Air Force Base.  
   "Grand Forks Air Force Base has long played a key role in defending our nation both at home and abroad and today's meetings confirmed the Air Force's desire to expand that responsibility," Senator Conrad said. "With the exciting opportunities presented by the new UAV mission and the new tanker mission, the Air Base in Grand Forks is well positioned to play a leading role in the future of our nation's air defense."
   "We have a top-notch Air Force base at Grand Forks that the Pentagon is committed to turning into one of the top UAV installations," Senator Dorgan said. "We had a good discussion with some key Air Force leaders today. I feel confident in the role Grand Forks Air Force Base will play in maintaining our nation's security as a hub of UAV activity, and hopeful that we have a good shot at becoming a home for the next generation of air refueling tankers."
   "The Air Force's plan to expand the mission of Grand Forks Air Force Base reinforces what we in North Dakota have long known - that the men and women serving there are among the best in the Air Force," Congressman Pomeroy said. "Grand Forks provides a strategically important location for these new UAVs, and basing them there will further expand the vital role Grand Forks Air Force Base plays in our national security and defense." 
   The North Dakota contingent met with Lt. Gen. Frank Klotz and Maj. Gen. Charles Stenner, both key advisors to Air Force Chief of Staff, General Michael Moseley, at the Pentagon about the role the Grand Forks Air Base will play in the Air Force's long-term strategic operations.
   The Air Force has recommended Grand Forks Air Force Base as the new home for the next generation of UAVs including the Global Hawk and Predator. As part of the Air Force's plan, some of the UAVs will be operated remotely by pilots from the North Dakota Air National Guard in Fargo. According to the congressional delegation, these UAV missions represent the future of the Air Force and have proven useful for both high-intensity combat and for counter-insurgency missions. 
   The North Dakota group also received an update from Air Force officials on the status of the new tanker production, which is scheduled to begin in 2011. General Moseley has already indicated that tanker replacement is his top modernization priority and that Grand Forks is a candidate to host some of the new tankers.
   The delegation representing the Grand Forks Air Force Base included Mayor Michael Brown, City Council President Hal Gershman and John Marshall, Chairman of the Council on Military Relations.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 