SEN. DORGAN INTRODUCES PROPOSAL TO REDUCE FEDERAL BUDGET DEFICIT
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) introduced legislation Monday that he called the "Act For Our Kids" to reduce the federal budget deficit by over $200 billion in the coming five years.  
   "Our fiscal policy is off track and we need to fix it," Dorgan said. "We can't continue to spend money we don't have and leave trillions of dollars of debt to be paid by our children and grandchildren." 
   Dorgan's proposal would reduce the federal deficit by applying targeted spending cuts to the budgets of federal agencies that force a decrease in their administrative overhead expenses. 
   "Bureaucracy continues to grow and every time someone proposes a cut in spending the agencies take the cut out of their programs that help people," Dorgan said. "It's time to cut back some of the overhead expenditure in federal bureaucracy, and that includes Congress and the executive branch." 
   This proposal will eliminate some federal spending programs that Dorgan believes are wasteful. In addition, it will increase revenue by ending tax breaks to the wealthiest Americans with an annual income over $1 million, and by closing tax loopholes that allow multinational companies to move good-paying jobs overseas and park their profits in offshore tax havens. 
   Dorgan also proposes a temporary two percent fee on imports coming into the United States. "It is a modest fee that will raise a substantial amount of money to reduce the deficit," Dorgan said. "At the same time, it will respond to the ballooning trade deficit of over $800 billion in a positive way." 
   The economic projections in 2001 showed the U.S. would have a $5.6 trillion surplus in the coming decade. Just six years later, the U.S. faces a ballooning federal debt that is expected to grow to over $12 trillion by 2012. 
   "If we don't take action now the federal indebtedness will continue to skyrocket," Dorgan said. "My proposals represent a series of ideas that I think will begin to address a fiscal policy that is out of control. This is a first step in the right direction to decide as a country that we're not going to continue this kind of reckless fiscal policy."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 