SEN. DORGAN SAYS PRIVATE ACCOUNTS WILL 'TAKE THE SECURITY OUT OF SOCIAL SECURITY'
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) told seniors at the Fargo Senior Commission Wednesday that creating private accounts in the Social Security system will cut the guaranteed retirement benefit North Dakotans and all Americans have come to count on and effectively "take the security out of Social Security."  
   "The President says there is a crisis in the Social Security system. There isn't," Dorgan said. "People are living longer, healthier lives and the Social Security system will need some adjustments to keep it solvent for the long term. But that doesn't require major policy changes, and it certainly doesn't justify taking this core retirement insurance program apart as the President suggests." 
   "The President also claims that diverting a portion of Social Security to private investment accounts would address what he calls 'the Social Security crisis.' The truth is: It won't," Dorgan said. "In fact, the President's plan would increase the federal debt and decrease the Social Security benefits at the same time." 
   Dorgan was joined at the press conference by Max Richtman, Executive Vice President of the National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare, who traveled from Washington, D.C., to Fargo for the event; and Janis Cheney, State Director of the AARP. Together the groups represent more than 75,000 members in North Dakota. 
   "I believe we should take steps to create more incentives for investments in personal retirement accounts outside the Social Security program," Dorgan said. "That will improve retirement security for all Americans. But that should not be confused with the foundation of retirement security, which is Social Security. The Social Security program is not an investment account; it is an insurance program that provides the foundation of retirement security that people can build on with their own personal investment accounts." 
   "Instead of weakening the foundation of retirement security, we ought to build a second story to the program with even more incentives for 401(k)s, IRAs and other retirement investment accounts," he added. 
   Dorgan notes that the Social Security program ran a surplus of over $150 billion this past year, and it will bring in over $2 trillion in surplus revenues in the next decade. Those revenues are needed for the Baby Boomer retirement period, he said. The Congressional Budget Office has predicted the Social Security Trust Fund will remain solvent until 2052-nearly half a century from now. 
   "Between now and then we can make adjustments that will extend that solvency well beyond the 75-year standard goal," Dorgan said. "Franklin Delano Roosevelt, when he signed the Social Security program into law, said it was necessary to provide a minimal safety net against 'poverty ridden old age.' Well, that hasn't changed. We need to honor the timeless values by which we preserve and strengthen those things that give America's senior citizens a life of dignity and an absence of poverty throughout their retirement years."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Sanjay Talwani, 202/224-2551.
 
 