SEN. DORGAN SECURES FUNDING FOR NEW RUNWAYS AT GRAND FORKS AIRPORT, INTERNATIONAL PEACE GARDEN
  Legislation approved Thursday by the Senate Appropriations Committee includes $2 million in federal funding secured by U.S. Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND) to construct two new runways at the Grand Forks International Airport. 
   Dorgan, a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, added funding to the Fiscal Year 2008 Transportation-HUD Appropriations bill to construct an east-west runway for fixed-wing aircraft and a north-south runway dedicated for helicopter use. This operation expansion at the airport will improve the University of North Dakota's John D. Odegard School of Aerospace Science training program and general aviation operations at the airport. 
   "This funding will help the Grand Forks airport expand its operations and service, bringing new opportunities for economic development and travel to the region," said Dorgan. 
   He also secured $450,000 for the International Peace Garden for badly needed repairs to a number of structures at the International Peace Garden. Dorgan, who toured the Peace Garden last fall to survey the need for improvements to its infrastructure, said the funding is needed to maintain the facility as a tourist attraction and symbol of international cooperation for generations to come.
   In addition, Dorgan persuaded the committee to reject the President's request to slash funding for Amtrak and the Essential Air Service program, which supports commercial air service in Jamestown, Williston, Devils Lake and Dickinson. The bill includes $1.37 billion for Amtrak, which will allow it to continue its long-distance train routes including the Empire Builder.
   Funding for these projects is part of $8.25 million Dorgan secured in the Transportation-HUD and Financial Services appropriations bills for projects in North Dakota. Below is a full list of North Dakota projects in the bills, which go next to the full Senate for consideration.
   North Dakota Transit Systems 
   $2 million
   This funding will be used to improve transit systems in North Dakota's four largest cities, as well as the 29 rural transit systems that operate in all 53 counties. The transit systems will use the funding to replace rural transit buses, vans, and paratransit vehicles, purchase accessible vans and new buses for added routes, and construct needed rural transit bus garages.
   Grand Forks International Airport Runway
   $2 million
   This funding will be used to expand capacity at Grand Forks International airport by constructing an east-west runway for fixed-wing aircraft and a north-south runway dedicated for helicopter use. The runways will provide much-needed capacity relief for the University of North Dakota's John D. Odegard School of Aerospace Science training program and normal general aviation operations. 
   Bismarck Municipal Airport Radar
   $1.5 million
   This funding will be used to relocate the radar system at Bismarck Municipal Airport to ensure it does not interfere with pending and future expansion of the Northern Plains Commerce Centre. The city planned the NPCC development around the FAA's announcement to move and upgrade the Bismarck airport's current radar. Because the FAA's upgrade plans have been delayed by several years, the current radar site impedes on pending and future development at NPCC.
   I-29 and 52nd Avenue Interchange
   $1 million
   This funding will be used to reconstruct the 52nd Avenue interchange along Interstate 29 in Fargo. The project will widen 52nd Avenue as it passes over I-29 and add ramps to the interchange. It will also add clearance and add a multi-use trail for bicycles and pedestrians.
   Turtle Mountain Youth Center
   $500,000
   This funding will be used to construct a youth center at the Turtle Mountain Indian Reservation that will provide after-school activities, mentoring, and other opportunities for young people on the reservation. 
   International Peace Garden
   $450,000
   This funding will be used to make repairs and improvements at the International Peace Garden, a National Park Service affiliate located on the U.S.-Canada border.
   Rural Economic Area Partnership (REAP) Zones
   $400,000
   This funding will support projects within two North Dakota REAP Zones and build on and leverage economic development opportunities in these rural areas. Senator Dorgan designated the two North Dakota zones in 1995. 
   Great Plains Energy Corridor Coordinating Office
   $250,000
   This funding will be used to develop a Great Plains Energy Corridor Coordinating Office at Bismarck State College to promote and advance the region's energy industry through education, outreach and development. The Center will work with energy researchers and industry to develop new and innovative ways to increase production, invest in the region's energy infrastructure, and develop new energy sources specific to the Northern Great Plains.
   Nanotechnology Applied Science Laboratory
   $150,000
   This funding will be used to develop a Nanotechnology Applied Science Lab at North Dakota State College of Science (NDSCS). The lab will serve as a training ground for students enrolled in NDSCS's two-year Nanoscience Technician program that trains students for jobs in the region's growing nanoscience and high-tech industries.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt ad Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 