SENATORS PUSH BENCHMARKS PROPOSAL IN MEETING WITH U.S. TRADE REPRESENTATIVE
  A group of six U.S. Senators met Tuesday with U.S. Trade Representative Susan Schwab to urge that trade agreements be renegotiated to include benchmarks for success, including whether the agreements had resulted in a net improvement in U.S. job creation and higher wages. Sen. Byron Dorgan, who hosted the meeting, said that while Ambassador Schwab demonstrated a willingness to discuss the concept of benchmarks, she insisted it is not possible to measure the economic impact of trade agreements, including job creation. "We obviously have some differences," Dorgan said.
   Joining Dorgan at the meeting with Schwab were Senators Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Bernie Sanders (I-VT), Jim Webb (D-VA), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), and Bob Casey (D-PA), part of a group of Senators who are seeking a new direction in trade policies. 
   "In the early 1990s, we enjoyed a trade surplus of over $1 billion with Mexico. Then NAFTA came along, and our trade officials promised that the agreement would create 200,000 new jobs a year. But there were no benchmarks in the agreement and no accountability. And what we've seen is a skyrocketing trade deficit that has grown to $65 billion, and hundreds of thousands of jobs that have migrated to Mexico. Nobody will claim with a straight face that NAFTA has been an engine of net job creation in the United States, but there has been no accountability," Dorgan said.
   Dorgan noted that Ambassador Schwab touted the growth of exports to countries with whom the United States has signed trade agreements, but Schwab claimed that other economic indicators - like trade deficits and job creation - could not be linked to trade agreements.
   "The Administration links export growth to trade agreements. But when you point out that imports have far outpaced exports, and that American jobs are migrating overseas, they claim that you can't measure the consequences of trade agreements. Today's meeting underscored for me the need for benchmarks and accountability in trade agreements," Dorgan said.
   "I appreciated Secretary Schwab's candor," said Senator Sherrod Brown (D-OH). "However, this administration has a dismal record on enforcing labor and environmental standards and I didn't hear anything in today's meeting to indicate any plans to change course. Ohio workers and business owners in November demanded a new course for trade policy, not more of the same."
   Senator Bernie Sanders (I-VT) said, "Our unfettered free trade policy with China, Mexico and other cheap-labor markets has cost millions of decent-paying jobs in the United States and record-breaking trade deficits. Instead of pursing a trade policy that has failed American workers and fueled a destructive race to the bottom, it is time for a new approach that focuses on increasing wages and jobs in the United States, and lifting living standards for all workers. Sen. Dorgan's call for benchmarks on these issues is an important step in the right direction."
   "Workers in Pennsylvania and across the country are anxious about their job security given this administration's track record on trade," said Senator Bob Casey (D-PA). "We need enforceable benchmarks to make sure that our workers are given a level playing field as they compete in a global market place. We appreciate the change in rhetoric by this administration, but we also need a change in policy to help ensure job security for our workers."
   "With stagnant wages and good jobs disappearing, America's workers need a new trade policy that will promote job creation and wage growth at home. This Administration also should be pursuing remedies to China's deliberately undervalued currency, preferably through action at the WTO," said Senator Jim Webb (D-VA).
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 