CONGRESS MUST INVEST IN TRAFFIC SAFETY ON RESERVATIONS, STANDING ROCK OFFICIAL SAYS TO DORGAN COMMITTEE
  The poor condition of the transportation network on American Indian reservations threatens public safety and harms the ability of tribes to promote economic development, Standing Rock Transportation Director Pete Red Tomahawk testified Thursday at an official hearing chaired by U.S. Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND). 
   Red Tomahawk, speaking at a hearing of the Senate Indian Affairs Committee, called on Congress to invest more in improving roads and other transportation infrastructure, educating the public on traffic safety, and bringing law enforcement and emergency medical services to American Indian communities.
   Motor vehicle injuries are the leading cause of death for Native Americans between the ages of 1 and 34, Red Tomahawk testified. The motor vehicle death rate for Native Americans is nearly twice as high as other races. Between 2000 and 2005, more than 25 percent of individuals who lost their lives in traffic accidents in South Dakota were Native American, even though Native Americans comprise only 8.3 percent of the state's population.
   "The roads on our reservations are a federal responsibility, and in most cases they are desperately underfunded," Dorgan said. "This is a problem that ends in tragedy for too many families, and I'm going to push for more resources so we can make these roads safer."
   "Tribes are struggling to find the funds necessary to meet the tremendous transportation needs in Indian Country. Congress and the Administration must recognize that Indian tribes have the most rudimentary transportation infrastructure in the country and lack the funds needed to maintain roadwasy in a safe condition," Red Tomahawk said. "Tribal communities will not suffer the traffic fatalities and injuries at the rates we are now seeing if we can interact on a more equal footing with states to plan, design, build and maintain our inventory roads, and implement traffic safety measures."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt ad Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 