SEN. DORGAN WINS OK TO LIFT ROAD-BLOCKS TO SALE OF U.S. FARM PRODUCTS TO CUBA
  U.S. Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND) won Senate Appropriations Committee approval Thursday for provisions removing two road-blocks the Bush Administration put in place to block U.S. farm product sales to Cuba.  
   "This is a big victory for American farmers," Dorgan said. "It means U.S. farmers will compete on an even field with farmers from other countries selling food to Cuba." 
   American farmers have sold more than $2 billion in farm products to Cuba since food sales were authorized in 2000 by legislation Dorgan authored ending the U.S. embargo against food and medicine sales to Cuba. North Dakota farm sales have totaled more than $20 million during that time. 
   Both figures are a fraction of what U.S. farmers could have been sold without the Bush Administration impediments. 
   Thursday's action came as the Senate Appropriations approved the Financial Services Appropriations bill. 
   The first Dorgan provision authorizes "general licenses" for travel to Cuba to sell U.S. agricultural products, instead of requiring case-by-case approval for such travel. The second prevents the U.S. Treasury Department from enforcing a 2005 rule that required "payment in advance" for U.S. farm products sold to Cuba, before the commodities can be shipped from U.S. ports. 
   By requiring case-by-case licenses for travel to Cuba to sell U.S. farm products, the Bush Administration is able to delay and sometime even prevent U.S. agricultural trade delegations from traveling to the island nation 90 miles off U.S. shores. 
   The "payment in advance" requirement puts U.S. sellers at a competitive disadvantage since it requires Cuba to pay for U.S. agricultural products much sooner than other countries require payment, increasing the cost of doing business with the U.S. 
   The legislation now goes to the full U.S. Senate for its consideration. 
   Dorgan has won approval for similar measures in previous Congresses, but Republican congressional leaders, acting at the request of the White House, routinely stripped them out in conference committee. With new leaders who recognize that the Cold War is over and the need for new markets for U.S. farmers, Dorgan said he expects the outcome to be very different, this time.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt ad Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 