SEN. DORGAN LAUNCHES ONLINE PETITION TO SUPPORT DISASTER RELIEF FOR FAMILY FARMERS, RANCHERS
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) Friday kicked off an effort to persuade the President to back down from his threat to veto an emergency appropriations bill if it contains any disaster relief for family farmers and ranchers, and urged North Dakotans to join him by signing an online petition. 
   Dorgan will serve on the House-Senate conference committee negotiating the final version of the emergency appropriations bill, but the President is pressuring members of the committee to drop the agriculture disaster package. Joined by farm and ranch leaders, Congressman Earl Pomeroy (D-ND), and Agriculture Commissioner Roger Johnson, Dorgan unveiled the petition available on his Web site, http://dorgan.senate.gov, and said he hopes North Dakotans will sign it so he can present it to the President and Congressional leaders to show strong grassroots support in the fight to preserve the agriculture disaster package in the bill. Dorgan said he'll invite Senate colleagues to join him with their own online petitions early next week.
   The President announced last month that he would veto the emergency supplemental bill if it includes the agriculture disaster package, which would bring an estimated $175 million in relief to North Dakota farmers and producers who have been hit by weather-related disasters and record-high energy costs. The Speaker of the House said last week the disaster package is "dead on arrival."
   "The President is just wrong about this issue, and it sounds like the majority in the House might follow his lead. Farmers in North Dakota and across the country were hit hard by weather-related disasters this year, and we need him to support our effort to help keep our producers on the land," Dorgan said. "The President needs to hear from North Dakotans on this issue. I hope everyone who agrees that this assistance is necessary will sign this petition and let him know that he needs to support our family farmers and ranchers, not pull the rug out from under them."
   Dorgan also sponsored the agriculture disaster package as a stand-alone bill with Senator Kent Conrad (D-ND) and a bipartisan group of Senators.
   "We're not going to stop pushing for this," Dorgan said. "After years of massive tax cuts that primarily benefited the very wealthy, it's hard to understand why the President would oppose help that will mean the difference between economic survival and bankruptcy for thousands in rural America."
   North Dakotans can sign the petition at http://dorgan.senate.gov or by calling 1-800-666-4482.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 