SEN. DORGAN TO HOST CONFERENCE ON FEDERAL PROCUREMENT OPPORTUNITIES AT BISMARCK STATE COLLEGE
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) announced Thursday he will sponsor the Federal Information Technology (IT) Contracting Roundtable on May 18-19 in Bismarck as a way to help North Dakota businesses tap into the booming market for federal IT contracts. Federal spending on IT contracts has grown from a $9 billion to a $17 billion-a-year industry in recent years, Dorgan said, and "North Dakota companies can benefit from that." 
   Dorgan said he is hosting the event with the Information Technology Council of North Dakota, the North Dakota Rural Economic Area Partnership (REAP) Zones and the New Economy Initiative. Experts from the General Service Administration (GSA) and the Small Business Administration (SBA) will be on hand to discuss how North Dakota companies can better compete-and ultimately land-federal contracts in the IT arena. 
   Participants will benefit from both group and one-on-one sessions aimed at matching North Dakota companies with federal procurement officials for help in devising step-by-step plans for registering and scheduling to sell to the federal government. Companies will also have the chance to meet with representatives of other North Dakota companies already doing government work. 
   "My goal for this conference is simple: increase the number of North Dakota companies doing business with the federal government," Dorgan said. "Our state is proving every day it has the capacity to be a hub for high-tech business. If the federal government is going to spend $17 billion a year for these types of IT services, there's no reason North Dakota companies can't compete for that work."
   Dorgan's Roundtable is one in a series of economic development conferences he's held in North Dakota to connect the state's businesses and producers to government agencies and major corporate buyers. In recent years he sponsored the Value-Added Agriculture Summit and the Federal Procurement Conference in Minot, and the Aerospace and Defense Manufacturers Roundtable in Grand Forks.
   The Federal Information Technology (IT) Contracting Roundtable begins at 5:00 PM on May 18th with a networking social and continues May 19th at 7:30 AM. The event is being held at Bismarck State College and is open to the public and free of charge other than a nominal $30 fee for meals. For more information or to register, visit www.itcnd.org or call 701-355-4458.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 