SEN. DORGAN QUESTIONS TOP AIR FORCE OFFICIALS ON STATUS OF BOMBER STUDY, NEED FOR B-52S
  Air Force Chief of Staff Michael Moseley told U.S. Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND) during a hearing Wednesday that the Air Force now believes it will need to maintain a fleet of more than 76 B-52 bombers. He also told Dorgan that an independent study on the Air Force's bomber needs should be delivered to Congress in the next few weeks. 
   Dorgan questioned Moseley and Air Force Secretary Michael Wynne at a hearing of the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. In the past, the Air Force has attempted to trim its B-52 fleet to only 56 bombers - a number that would almost certainly create a "bomber gap." Dorgan, Senator Kent Conrad and Congressman Earl Pomeroy have secured a provision in law requiring the Air Force to keep at least 76 bombers in service.
   But Moseley told Dorgan today that several developments - including the decision that the Air Force would designate parts of its B-52 force to train for the nuclear strike mission six months at a time - means that the Air Force may have to retain 76 bombers or more. This is the first time the Air Force has said this publicly.
   "I've long argued that the retirement of our B-52 fleet would create a situation where the Air Force cannot meet the need for long-range strike capability. So this is a positive development for our military capability," Dorgan said. "I strongly support the push for a fleet of next-generation bombers. But in the meantime, we need to maintain a strong fleet of B-52s. These are the lowest-cost bomber in our arsenal, and they have many decades of life left. Keeping them in service is the most responsible way to manage our taxpayer dollars."
   Dorgan also added a provision to an appropriations bill prohibiting the Air Force from retiring any B-52s until an independent study is delivered to Congress analyzing the effect the retirement would have on the nation's long-range strike capabilities. Dorgan expects the study to show that the retirement would create a "bomber gap" - too few B-52s to satisfy the needs of the U.S. military.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 