GENERAL ACCEPTS DELEGATION INVITATION TO VISIT GRAND FORKS AIR BASE
  Sens. Byron Dorgan and Kent Conrad and and Rep. Earl Pomeroy announced today that General Michael Moseley, the second highest-ranking officer in the Air Force, will visit Grand Forks to inspect the base and meet with the men and women who serve there.  
   General Moseley, Air Force Vice Chief of Staff, accepted an invitation that was extended by the Congressional delegation and will arrive at the Air Base on October 25. In addition to meeting with the Congressional delegation, General Moseley will speak to base and community leaders 
   "Our base in Grand Forks is the crown jewel of the Air Force and we want to show it off to General Mosley," the delegation said in a joint statement. "His accepting our invitation demonstrates the confidence he - and all of the Air Force - has in this base." 
   The Congressional delegation has been meeting with General Mosley and top Pentagon officials over the past couple of months to stress the strength, accomplishments and military significance of North Dakota's Air Force Bases in Grand Forks and Minot, as well as the Air National Guard's 119th Fighter Wing in Fargo. The delegation is working to ensure the bases survive the next round of military base closings. The Defense Department will make recommendations to the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission by next May on which military bases around the country should be shuttered. 
   "I am a big fan of the congressional delegation and a big fan of the bases in North Dakota," General Moseley said in a recent Pentagon meeting with North Dakotans. 
   Earlier this week, the delegation announced that the U.S. House and Senate have approved the nation's annual military construction spending bill. The legislation includes $26.2 million for 90 family housing units at Grand Forks Air Force Base. This federal funding is in addition to the $27.5 million the delegation recently secured for rebuilding therunway at the air base. 
   The Senate also approved funding for construction at Minot Air Force Base and the 119th Fighter Wing in Fargo. In total, $74 million has been appropriated to North Dakota bases. 
   North Dakota's military installations have benefited from substantial federal investment in recent years. Just last year, the delegation secured more than $92.4 million to improve housing and fitness facilities on North Dakota's Air Force Bases and to fund new North Dakota National Guard projects.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Sanjay Talwani, 202/224-2551.
 
 