SEN. DORGAN SAYS NORTH DAKOTA LEGISLATURE SHOULD ADOPT RENEWABLE FUELS STANDARD
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) Wednesday urged North Dakota state officials to join him in moving aggressively to spur North Dakota's role in the production of ethanol and other renewable fuels.  
   Dorgan, a member of the Senate Energy Committee, authored a provision in the federal energy bill that passed Congress in July that requires refineries to use at least 7.5 billion gallons of ethanol annually. 
   Below is the text of Dorgan's statement: 
   TEXT OF STATEMENT
   BY U.S. SENATOR BYRON DORGAN
   October 12, 2005 
   "If North Dakota is going to benefit from the new federal legislation that mandates 7.5 billion gallons of renewable fuels be used in the U.S. by 2012, then we need to develop specific goals for ethanol and biodiesel use in North Dakota. 
   "Our state is far behind our neighbor states of Minnesota, South Dakota and Iowa in building plants and producing ethanol and biodiesel. And I want to see our state benefit with the new jobs and new markets for our farmers and new economic activity coming from the production of more ethanol and biodiesel. 
   "As the price of oil and gas skyrockets, now is the time for our state to make plans to expand our production of renewable energy that farmers can grow in their farm fields. 
   "State leaders need to establish a Renewable Fuels Standard for our state. I believe we should create a goal of having a minimum of 10 percent of our gasoline supply provided by ethanol and at least 2 percent of our diesel provided by biodiesel by 2008. That is a very modest goal, but one that I encourage our state leaders to adopt. "I also hope the state legislature will aggressively promote the availability and use of E-85 fuel by extending and expanding the current state incentives for E-85. 
   "If we can't set reasonable goals to produce renewable energy when oil and gas prices are through the roof, then we will never solve our energy problems. 
   "I was one of the authors of the federal Renewable Fuels Standard setting targets and timetables for ethanol. But our state policies on ethanol must be more aggressive or we will continue to lag behind our neighboring states."
 
 