SENATORS BLOCK ATTEMPT TO STRIP PEACE GARDEN FUNDING
  Senators Byron Dorgan and Kent Conrad today successfully fought back attempts to strip federal funding for repairs to the International Peace Garden, a memorial near Bottineau, North Dakota that serves as a place of remembrance and a symbol of cross-border cooperation. 
   "It is quite ironic that just a day after the anniversary of the 9-11 terrorists attacks a Senator from Oklahoma would attack this project. These gardens promote a message of peace and are home to a 9-11 memorial constructed from the wreckage of the World Trade Center," Senator Conrad said. 
   "The International Peace Garden is a symbol of the friendship and peace that has existed for years between the United States and Canada," Dorgan said. "This is an important institution that is a source of pride for our nation, and this funding is an important investment that will ensure its facilities are in good condition." 
   Earlier this year, Senator Dorgan and Senator Conrad authored a provision to include $450,000 in the Senate's Transportation, Housing and Urban Development appropriations bill to maintain the grounds and make repairs to the historic memorial. Senator Tom Coburn (R-OK) attempted to strip the funding from the bill. However, the Senate today blocked Coburn's attempt by a vote of 63-32. 
   Dedicated in front of more than 50,000 people in 1932, the International Peace Garden is located on the border between the state of North Dakota and the Canadian province of Manitoba. 
   After 75 years, the Peace Garden's buildings are in desperate need of repair. Many of the site's structures have crumbling foundations and rotting rafters. In all, 17 buildings at the 2,339 acre park require significant repairs. 
   The State of North Dakota and Province of Manitoba have contributed funds to help start the repairs. The Canadian government has also pledged a significant infrastructure contribution, but it's based on a match from the U.S. 
   The approval of the Conrad-Dorgan provision today is an important first step toward making these needed improvements and matching the funds provided by the Canadian government. 
   Hosting more than 150,000 visitors every year, the Peace Garden features botanical gardens, an interpretive center, peace chapel, border walk, bell tower, and camp facilities. In addition, expansion plans include an international conflict-resolution center.
   "The overwhelming support shown by the Senate vote today demonstrates the importance of the Peace Garden not only to North Dakota but to our nation," Senators Conrad and Dorgan said in a joint statement. "These gardens honor the international friendship between the United States and Canada and serve as a symbol of America's commitment to promoting peace around the world."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 