SENS. DORGAN, WYDEN WELCOME DECISION TO DROP TROUBLED SECURITY FIRM AT DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
  Sens. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) and Ron Wyden (D-OR) say they welcome the Department of Homeland Security's (DHS) recent decision to replace the private security firm it hired to protect its own building, but said they will continue to press DHS to better secure its own headquarters. 
   DHS dropped the contract it had for security at its Washington, DC headquarters with Wackenhut Security Services, replacing the firm with Paragon Systems of Chantilly, Virginia.
   Dorgan and Wyden asked the DHS Inspector General on February 15 to investigate reports that Wackenhut inadequately trained and equipped its guards to secure the national DHS headquarters building in Washington, DC. Numerous and serious security lapses were the result, according to guards who contacted the two lawmakers.
   "It is still a mystery why the department charged with keeping the homeland secure finds it necessary to contract out its own headquarters building security," Dorgan said. "It is, however, a step in the right direction that they are dumping the firm that demonstrated so vividly its inability to do the job. We will watch closely to see whether the new firm is able to do it any better, but are encouraged that the new contract at least requires much greater security standards - a minimum of 72 hours of pre-employment training, recertification every two years, bullet proof vests, and a higher standard of weapons, among other improvements."
   "Perhaps one day DHS will demonstrate it has the ability to secure its own building without having to resort to outside contractors. In the mean time, jettisoning a contractor clearly not up to the job seems like a pretty good idea," Dorgan said.
   "I welcome the news that the Department of Homeland Security is finally starting to get serious about its own security," said Wyden. "We will keep a close eye on the new contractor and make sure that higher standards equal better security at the department tasked with keeping our nation secure." Dorgan and Wyden said the problems with DHS building security first came to their attention as a part of their ongoing effort to spotlight and halt wasteful government spending. They noted the new contract calls for the new firm to provide more building security at a lower cost to the taxpayers than what Wackenhut was charging.
   "That's good news, too," Dorgan said. "But we need to continue to keep an eye on this to make sure that the called for improvements in security are actually delivered."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 