SEN. DORGAN: RESTORING FARM DISASTER PROGRAM, CAPPING FARM PROGRAM PAYMENTS ARE TOP PRIORITIES FOR FARM BILL
  U.S. Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND) stopped Monday in rural Amenia to gather ideas and advice from area farmers and ranchers as the Senate prepares to begin drafting a new Farm Bill in September. Dorgan conducted a "farm shop" meeting at the Bill and Gwen Hejl farm near Amenia. 
   No legislation the Senate will consider this year, Dorgan said, will be more important to North Dakota agriculture.
   Dorgan, a member of the Senate Agriculture Appropriations Committee which will fund implantation of the federal farm program, said he has three top priorities when the Senate takes up the legislation. Those priorities are preserving the family farm price safety net; restoring a permanent agricultural disaster assistance program, and putting a meaningful limit on federal farm program payments in order to better target help to family farmers.
   "Preservation of a reliable safety net for family farmers is the biggest priority," Dorgan said. "That means farm price supports must be realistic, but it means more than that. It also means that when weather and crop disease disasters hit farm country or when grain prices collapse, family farmers have the protection of a safety net and a permanent disaster assistance program."
   Dorgan said the ag disaster package he finally got Congress to approve this year will bring $140 million in disaster assistance to North Dakota producers who have been hit by weather related disasters the last couple of years.
   Another top priority, Dorgan said, will be working to put a meaningful cap on farm program payments. "The farm program was not created to bankroll giant corporate agri-factories. It was created to help family farmers survive the unpredictable peaks and valleys of farm prices. That's a policy that works to benefit consumers as well, and we need to strengthen it. Bankrolling large corporate farmers who have all the resources they need to get through tough times, diverts needed resources away from family farmers, and frankly, jeopardizes public support for a federal farm program."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 