CONGRESS APPROVES SEN. DORGAN'S MEASURES TO ADDRESS LOW WATER ACCESS AT LAKE SAKAKAWEA
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) said Monday Congress and the President have approved his measures to address problems caused by low water levels at Lake Sakakawea, including his provision to use federal funds to build a new marina at Fort Stevenson State Park. The Omnibus Appropriations Bill for Fiscal Year 2005, signed last week, puts into law the commitment the Army Corps of Engineers made to Dorgan earlier this year to use federal funds to build a new marina in Garrison Bay, usable even during drought conditions.  
   The bill also includes $825,000 in federal funding for improvements to the Lake needed due to low water levels. Dorgan added $725,000 to the Corps budget for activities related to low water levels, including the extension of boat ramps to improve lake access, as well as for other projects including mosquito and weed control. In addition, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) will receive an additional $100,000 to control the problem of noxious weeds made worse by the low water levels. Dorgan said Friends of Lake Sakakawea, a local group he formed three years ago, will work with USFWS and the Corps to prioritize the projects. 
   In September, Park Superintendent Dick Messerly and Garrison Chamber of Commerce President Sue Schreiner met with Dorgan, Senator Kent Conrad (D-ND) and Corps officials to demonstrate the need for a marina in deeper water across Garrison Bay. Corps officials assured Dorgan then that the Corps would move forward with the project using its own funds. 
   "The Corps has committed to building the new marina, but this bill makes certain that the Corps will use existing federal funds for the project, and not force state or local governments into an expensive cost-share agreement," Dorgan said. "With this measure, a new marina, accessible even during extended drought, is a major step closer to being built." 
   "I'm pleased that the Congress passed these measures to ensure that the Corps builds this marina and problems caused by low water will be addressed," Dorgan said. "But until the Corps manages the Missouri River for the benefit of both upstream and downstream users, instead of leaving the Dakotas high and dry to support a dying barge industry downstream, the Corps may be called on to make major improvements to river facilities, from marinas to public water systems, for years to come."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Sanjay Talwani, 202/224-2551. 
 
 