SEN. DORGAN ANNOUNCES NORTHWEST AIRLINES AGREES TO CHANGE FARES FOR MINOT AIRPORT
  U.S. Senator Byron Dorgan announced Wednesday that Northwest Airlines officials have agreed to make fares for passengers traveling to and from Minot International Airport more competitive with other airports in the region. The change should result in some reduced fares for travelers flying to or from Minot. 
   The airline has agreed to review and change their pricing structure to a "common fare" pricing with the Bismarck market, so the two cities are priced as though they are one.
   Dorgan convened a meeting earlier this month with officials from Minot and Northwest Airlines to discuss fares at the Minot airport. Officials from Minot had compiled data showing that fares to and from the city were not competitive with fares from similar communities served by Northwest.
   Today, Dorgan arranged a conference call with Northwest officials and Minot city leaders to discuss the results of Northwest's review of fares.
   "I believe this common fare can be helpful to airline travelers in Minot and the surrounding area," Dorgan said. "It is important to have good commercial air service, and it is also important to have competitive pricing. I think this is good news fro Minot-area travelers."
   "I want to thank Senator Dorgan for getting Northwest Airlines to the table so we can visit," Minot Mayor Curt Zimbelman said. "For Northwest to take a hard look and come back with this change is a benefit for our community. I thank Northwest for their willingness to look at these fares and I look forward to working with them in the future."
   In January, Northwest Airlines agreed to conduct a comprehensive review of fares for Minot, and sent a letter to Dorgan on Wednesday confirming that they will offer the same fares for Minot passengers as are offered to passengers using other airports in the area.
   Northwest has agreed to regularly review the airfares in the areas to ensure reasonable pricing for North Dakota airports.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 