SEN. DORGAN TO SERVE AS VICE CHAIRMAN OF SENATE INDIAN AFFAIRS COMMITTEE
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) will serve as Vice Chairman of the Senate Indians Affairs Committee in the new Congress, a top-ranking post that will put him in a central position to advance Native American education and health issues-both vital to North Dakota's Native Americans and the state's economy. He will work closely with Sen. John McCain (R-AZ), who will serve as Chairman of the committee.  
   Dorgan announced his new position at a press conference on the campus of United Tribes Technical College (UTTC), for which he has restored funding in the past several years after the Bush Administration sought to eliminate it. Joining Dorgan at the press conference were Charlie Murphy, Chairman of the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe; Ken Davis, Chairman of the Turtle Mountain Chippewa Tribe; and Tino White, Chairman of the Spirit Lake Tribe. 
   "This will be an excellent position from which to work to help shape the agenda in the Senate on Indian issues," Dorgan said. "Health care, education, and economic development are all vitally important areas we need to advance, and I intend to work toward those goals. Strong, economically vibrant Indian communities benefit all of North Dakota and America, on and off the reservations. I'm looking forward to working with Senator John McCain, the Committee Chairman, and I'm committed to making sure issues important to North Dakota's Native Americans are put on the Congressional agenda." 
   Dorgan said he will use his new leadership role on the committee to help ensure adequate funding of UTTC and other tribal schools and colleges. North Dakota reservations have other major needs as well, in health care, housing, law enforcement, and many other areas that the Indian Affairs Committee will play a central role in addressing, Dorgan said. 
   "When Congress tackles the nation's problems and charts our course for the future, it's important that the first Americans are remembered," Dorgan said. "It is the role of the Indian Affairs Committee to make sure Native American issues are part of our national debate, and I intend to make sure those interests are well represented." 
   The Indian Affairs Committee has jurisdiction over legislation regarding the unique issues of American Indian, Native Hawaiian, and Alaska Native peoples, including Indian education, economic development, land management, trust responsibilities, and health care. Additionally, all legislation proposed by Members of the Senate that specifically pertains to American Indians, Native Hawaiians, or Alaska Natives is under the jurisdiction of the Committee.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Sanjay Talwani, 202/224-2551.
 
 