TWENTY EIGHT SENATE DEMOCRATS CALL FOR FORMAL DOD INVESTIGATION, SECRETARY RUMSFELD'S PERSONAL ATTENTION INTO HALLIBURTON OVERCHARGES, CONTRACT ABUSES
  Twenty eight Democratic U.S. Senators, led by Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND), are calling for a formal Department of Defense investigation into what they described as "alarming" reports of fraudulent, wasteful and abusive practices by Halliburton in providing food to U.S. troops in Iraq.  
   In a letter to Rumsfeld released Wednesday, the Senators cited testimony received at a Democratic Policy Committee (DPC) hearing Dorgan chaired June 27, at which a range of abuses by Halliburton were cited, including: 
   * Serving food to American troops that was outdated by as much as a year or contaminated by bullets and shrapnel. When the food's condition was called to the attention of Halliburton supervisors, witnesses said, workers were instructed to use it anyway. 
   * Serving 10,000 meals but deliberately billing the government for at least 20,000 meals, every day at one dining hall, at one base. 
   * Instructions from Halliburton managers that workers were not to speak to government auditors 
   "We trust you will find this testimony as alarming as we do," the Senators wrote. "The testimony demands an immediate and full investigation." 
   Witness Rory Mayberry, a former food production manager at Halliburton subsidiary KBR, testified that troops were given food that had expired as much as a year earlier. He described a scene in which, after a convoy was ambushed, he and other employees were instructed to remove the bullets and shrapnel from the food supplies and serve them to U.S. soldiers. 
   Halliburton also charged the U.S. government for tens of thousands of meals that were never served. Mayberry testified that Halliburton managers instructed employees not to speak to government auditors, and punished those who did by sending them to more dangerous camps. 
   "Our troops deserve to eat their dinner without worrying it is spoiled or contaminated with bits of shrapnel," Dorgan said. "Halliburton was given a sweetheart deal here, and they've done nothing but take advantage of it. I implore Mr. Rumsfeld to look into this matter immediately." 
   Senators signing the letter, in addition to Dorgan included: Carl Levin (D-MI), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Frank Lautenberg (D-NJ), Daniel Akaka (D-HI), Max Baucus (D-MT), Herb Kohl (D-WI), Ted Kennedy (D-MA), Patty Murray (D-WA), Jeff Bingaman (D-NM), Blanche Lincoln (D-AR), Jim Jeffords (I-VT), John Corzine (D-NJ), Tim Johnson (D-SD), Jack Reed (D-RI), Jay Rockefeller (D-WV), Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Patrick Leahy (D-VT), Dick Durbin (D-IL), Paul Sarbanes (D-MD), Hillary Rodham Clinton (D-NY), Mark Dayton (D-MN), Mary Landrieu (D-LA), Ken Salazar (D-CO), Kent Conrad (D-ND), Joseph Lieberman (D-CT), Barbara Boxer (D-CA), and Charles Schumer (D-NY).
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551. 
 
 