SEN. DORGAN TO HOLD HEARING TO ADDRESS TEEN SUICIDE ON INDIAN RESERVATIONS
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) announced today the Senate Indian Affairs Committee will hold a hearing this Wednesday, June 15, at 9:30 a.m. on the prevalence of teen suicide on Indian reservations across the nation. Dorgan, Vice Chairman of the committee, said he has received a commitment from Dr. Richard Carmona, Surgeon General of the United States, to testify at the hearing.  
   Indians have the highest rate of suicide of all ethnic groups in the United States - 14.8% per 100,000. In certain regions of the country these rates are significantly higher. For example, Indian youth in parts of the Great Plains are 10 times more likely to commit suicide than their non-Indian counterparts. A recent article in the Washington Post indicated that one small village in Alaska has a suicide rate among young Alaska Natives that is 200 times that for young non-Native Americans. 
   This is the first Senate hearing in Washington that addresses the topic of teen suicide on Indian reservations. Dorgan chaired a field hearing in Bismarck, N.D., May 2, to gather information on the problem. Dorgan said he expects the June 15 hearing to follow up on that discussion, and that he hopes it will continue to bring public attention to the issue. 
   In addition to Surgeon General Carmona, the Indian Affairs Committee also will hear testimony from members of tribes from across the country who have dealt with the suicide problem firsthand; as well as Dr. Charles Grim, Director of Indian Health Services (IHS) and a member of the Cherokee Nation in Oklahoma who also testified at the May 2 hearing in Bismarck. 
   Details below: 
   WHO: U.S. Senator John McCain (R-AZ); U.S. Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND); Dr. Richard Carmona, Surgeon General of the United States; Dr. Charles Grim, Director of Indian Health Services (IHS) and member of the Cherokee Nation; Twila Rough Surface, member of the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe who lost a family member to suicide, employee of the Tribe's Family Protective Services; Dr. Joseph B. Stone, member of the Blackfeet Tribe of Northern Montana, practicing psychologist in Oregon and Washington; Julie Garreau, member of the Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe in Eagle Butte, S.D., Director of the Billy Mills Youth Center - The Main; Dr. R. Dale Walker, member of the Cherokee Nation from Oklahoma, Director of One Sky Center, a national resource center on mental health prevention and treatment for Indians; Clark Flatt, President and CEO of the Jason Foundation (named for his son who committed suicide at the age of 16 in 1997), in Hendersonville, T.N., which is working with the Bureau of Indian Affairs on suicide education and prevention programs. 
   WHAT: Senate Indian Affairs Committee hearing on Indian teen suicide 
   WHEN: 9:30 a.m. - Wednesday, June 15, 2005 
   WHERE: Senate Indian Affairs Committee Room - 485 Russell Senate Office Building Washington, D.C. WHY: To hear testimony about the prevalence of suicide and suicidal behavior among youth on Indian reservations across the country.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 