SENATE OVERWHELMINGLY APPROVES SENS. DORGAN-CONRAD AMENDMENT TO STRENGTHEN EFFORT TO CAPTURE OR KILL OSAMA BIN LADEN
  The U.S. Senate voted 87-1 Friday to approve an amendment offered by U.S. Senators Byron Dorgan and Kent Conrad to double the reward for information leading to the capture or death of Osama bin Laden, the mastermind of the 9/11 attacks, and requiring classified reports to be made to Congress detailing efforts to apprehend the al Qaeda leadership. The action comes on the heels of a new warning from Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff that al Qaeda may soon attack the United States. 
   "The Director of National Intelligence says that al Qaeda is the greatest terrorist threat to the security of United States. If that is true, there should not be a safe haven for Osama bin Laden anywhere in the world," Dorgan said. "Tracking down this threat is a matter of will and focus. The President has been quoted as saying he does not think capturing Osama bin Laden and the leaders of al Qaeda is a priority. I think that's a mistake, and the Senate expressed strong support for our amendment today that makes sure our top priority is to bring bin Laden and his men to justice."
   "It has been 2,131 days since the attacks of September 11, and Osama bin Laden remains free and continues to threaten our nation's security. This is unacceptable," Senator Conrad said. "We must redirect our attention and focus our security efforts on tracking down bin Laden and al Qaeda. Whether we capture bin Laden or kill him, it is long past time that this terrorist be brought to justice."
   The Dorgan-Conrad amendment doubles the reward for the capture or information leading to the capture or death of Osama bin Laden to $50 million. The legislation also requires the White House to issue a classified report to Congress every 90 days on the activities of the federal government related to bringing bin Laden and other top associates of al Qaeda to justice.
   Senators Conrad and Dorgan introduced their amendment Thursday to the Defense Authorization bill in an effort to refocus the country's attention and some of the government's resources toward finally bringing bin Laden to justice.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202-224-2551.
 
 