DELEGATION, GOVERNOR APPLAUD DECISION TO PRESERVE MINOT AIR FORCE BASE
  Sens. Kent Conrad and Byron Dorgan, Rep. Earl Pomeroy and Gov. John Hoeven said today they are pleased the Minot Air Force Base has been spared from the Pentagon's list of base closings. However, Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld has recommended that Grand Forks Air Force Base and Fargo's Air National Guard 119th Fighter Wing be realigned.  
   "The decision to preserve Minot Air Force Base is the right one for the country and for the Minot community," the North Dakota officials said in a joint statement. However, the Base Realignment and Closure Commission could, through its review of the Pentagon's recommendations, add Minot to the list for either closure or realignment later. The delegation and Governor said they would not relent in their effort to protect Minot. 
   However, today's decision appears to retain Minot Air Force Base as a key component in the military's bomber and ICBM force structure. This accomplishes the objective of the North Dakota delegation, the Governor, and Minot community leaders who have participated in dozens of high-level meetings with Defense Department officials and top Pentagon brass since the last BRAC round. 
   The announcement that Minot Air Force Base is not on the Pentagon list released Friday presents an opportunity to expand the missions at the base. Minot Air Force Base is in outstanding physical shape due to $316 million the Congressional delegation has secured in infrastructure improvements over the last 10 years. 
   In the next few weeks, members of the BRAC Commission will make site visits to installations being considered for closure. In past BRAC rounds, community leaders and elected officials have had an opportunity to join the commissioners for their site visit. 
   "We have been working very hard on BRAC for years, but our efforts in the next few months will be even greater," the delegation and the Governor said. "Together with the local communities, we will continue to fight, every step of the way, to save all of North Dakota's bases."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 