WIND-HYDROGEN PILOT PROJECT AWARDED $497,000 FEDERAL GRANT
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) announced Monday that a consortium of energy companies and research institutions in North Dakota has been awarded a federal grant of $497,050 to undertake an innovative pilot program to produce, store and distribute hydrogen fuel. The project could be a major step toward efficiently producing hydrogen fuel using wind energy in North Dakota.  
   Dorgan, a member of the Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee, secured the funding for the project during last year's appropriations process. 
   The consortium consists of Basin Electric Power Cooperative, the University of North Dakota Energy and Environmental Research Center (EERC), Stuart Energy Systems Corp., the North Dakota State University (NDSU) North Central Research Extension Center, Verendrye Electric Power Cooperative, and the City of Minot. These partners will contribute $124,262 to the project. 
   "This project has enormous implications for the future of wind energy, hydrogen power, and economic growth in America's Heartland," said Dorgan, a national leader in the drive to bring hydrogen-powered vehicles and wind energy into mainstream use. "North Dakota is positioned to become a world leader in wind power, and North Dakota scientists are already doing some of the most important hydrogen technology work in the world. I'm pleased that the Department of Energy has recognized this project as an important part of its research program." 
   The project plan consists of two parts. The initial phase will analyze the economics and environmental impacts associated with the production of hydrogen fuel using wind turbines. The second phase, scheduled to begin in the spring of 2005, will include the placement of a hydrogen electrolyzer using "dynamic scheduling" with Basin Electric's wind energy farms to produce hydrogen for use as a vehicle fuel both on and off site. The hydrogen electrolyzer would be constructed at the NDSU North Central Research Extension Center with the support of Verendrye Electric. 
   The electrolyzer would be one of the nation's first sources of hydrogen from a renewable resource. The hydrogen could be used as a fuel for both internal combustion and fuel cell vehicles and for electrical generation. The consortium is working with several entities to determine the best use of the hydrogen. 
   "We believe that this project can be an example for how the future might look," said Wayne Backman, Basin Electric's Senior Vice President of Generation. Backman noted that the project will provide a glimpse of some of the challenges and opportunities for the development of a hydrogen economy.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt, 202/224-2551.
 
 