SEN. DORGAN ANNOUNCES LINE-UP FOR 2005 UPPER GREAT PLAINS TECHNOLOGY CONFERENCE AND TRADE SHOW IN FARGO
  The 2005 Upper Great Plains Technology Conference and Trade Show in Fargo, North Dakota, will feature keynote speakers from three companies that have not only succeeded, but have managed to transform their industries, Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) announced Friday. The seventh annual conference, which Dorgan sponsors with the Chamber of Commerce of Fargo-Moorhead, will be held Monday, October 10, and Tuesday, October 11, at the Fargodome and is open to the public.  
   Those attending the conference will hear from CEOs from XM Satellite Radio, Medtronic and Qualcomm Inc., Dorgan said. Hugh Panero, President and CEO of XM Satellite Radio, has been named "Innovator of the Year" and a "power player" in the digital entertainment industry by Billboard magazine. Dr. Irwin Jacobs, as co-founder and chairman of the board of Qualcomm Inc., has led the development of the world's fastest-growing and most advanced digital wireless technology. Art Collins, chairman and CEO of Medtronic Inc., oversees a leading medical research and development organization while also serving on the board of directors of U.S. Bancorp and Cargill, Inc. 
   "I'm really pleased with the line-up we've put together for this year's Technology Conference and Trade Show," Dorgan said. "Art Collins, Irwin Jacobs and Hugh Panero are three well-known and quite unique executives, and I'm excited to bring them to North Dakota. This provides local business leaders and all North Dakotans an opportunity to network, strategize and create a vision for their future. I hope everyone who has an interest in business and technology can attend." 
   The event also will feature more than 175 exhibitors from the nation's top high-tech companies, workshops on the latest technologies, and a Youth Summit for Online Safety sponsored by Microsoft and i-SAFE America. Registration can be access online at www.uppergreatplainstechnology.com. There is no cost to attend the keynote speeches, trade show or workshops, though pre-registration is required. To participate in the two lunches, breakfast and two food socials, the cost is $90.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 