SENS. CONRAD, DORGAN, REP. POMEROY CALL ON EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE TO AMERICA'S FARMERS, RANCHERS
  As the emergency relief effort continues in the Gulf Region, more than 100 family farmers and ranchers from across the nation joined Sens. Kent Conrad and Byron Dorgan, and Rep. Earl Pomeroy today to announce the introduction of emergency legislation to assist agricultural producers hurt by Hurricane Katrina and other natural disasters this year.  
   Members of the National Farmers Union (NFU) and the North Dakota Farmers Union (NDFU) joined the lawmakers to unveil the Emergency Agriculture Disaster Assistance Act of 2005. This bill will provide disaster assistance to crop and livestock producers across the country who have suffered production and quality losses due to devastating weather conditions. 
   "We are hearing that Hurricane Katrina could cost the nation's agricultural sector more than $2 billion. That's on top of weather-related disasters that have already wreaked havoc on farms and ranches across the nation," the delegation said in a joint statement. "Without question, this year has brought a series of hits from which many family farmers will have difficulty recovering. But this bill will give them a fighting chance." 
   Weather-related disaster losses have affected more than half of the counties in the United States including over two-thirds of the counties in North Dakota. In addition to the extensive loss of crops and livestock in the Gulf, the nation's farmers and ranchers have also faced drought in the Midwest, flooding in the Plains region, crop infestations and livestock diseases. The spike in energy prices has also hit agricultural producers especially hard. Higher fuels prices mean additional costs to produce fertilizers, operate farm machinery and ship goods to market. 
   "Farmers and ranchers are facing low commodity prices, rising input costs due to skyrocketing fuel prices, and weather related disasters," NFU President Dave Frederickson said. "I am encouraged to see the North Dakota delegation and others introduce this legislation, which will help ease these burdens at this critical time." 
   The legislation includes several provisions to provide relief, including a crop disaster program, an extension of the Livestock Assistance Program, and an additional $100 million in Emergency Conservation Program funds. 
   Cosponsors of the Senate bill include Mark Dayton (D-MN), Ken Salazar (D-CO), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), Patty Murray (D-WA), and Tim Johnson (D-SD). 
   Emergency Agriculture Disaster Assistance Act of 2005
   Summary of Key Components 
   Agricultural Production Loss - Addresses weather-related farm and ranch production losses and resource management needs. 
   * Comprehensive: 
   Provides payment for producers who lose over 25% of their production, either due to actual crop loss or market discounts due to quality. 
   Provides for livestock feed assistance and payments for loss of livestock 
   * Emergency Funding: 
   Does not require reductions in other agriculture programs to pay for assistance.
   * Conservation:
   Provides additional funding for the Emergency Conservation and the Emergency Watershed Protection Programs. 
   Economic Assistance - Addresses escalating input costs such as energy prices, market uncertainties caused by Hurricane Katrina and increasing demands on state food assistance programs.
   * Specialty Crop / Nutrition Assistance: 
   Makes grants to states to supplement food banks and other nutrition assistance programs. 
   Promotes agricultural markets with a priority on specialty crops. ,br Allows for economic assistance to specialty crop producers. 
   * Dairy:
   Extends the Milk Income Loss Compensation (MILC) program for one year.
   * Program Crops: 
   Provides supplemental payments to program crop producers equal to 20% of their 2005 farm program direct payment.
   Extends maturing commodity marketing loans for program crops for up to 6 months.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 