SEN. DORGAN RELEASES TASK FORCE REPORT ON HOW TO FIX 'NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND' EDUCATION PROGRAM
  Flanked by leaders of a blue-ribbon task force he organized to come up with ideas to fix the controversial No Child Left Behind education program, U.S. Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND) unveiled their recommendations Thursday and said the program should either be fixed or scrapped altogether. 
   No Child Left Behind is scheduled to be reauthorized by the Congress this year. Last spring, Dorgan assembled a task force of North Dakotans and asked Doug Johnson from the North Dakota Council of Education Leaders to chair it. The panel, which included teachers, parents and education administrators, has worked since last spring to develop recommendations for Senator Dorgan.
   Dorgan said No Child Left Behind is just a slogan that has become a top-down, federal one-size-fits-all mandate in need of adequate funding, flexibility and common sense. He said he believes the recommendations from the task force will help put the program on the right track to improve education in the United States - particularly in rural areas.
   The report includes the following recommendations:
   * Shift to a growth model. The report calls for a new method of assessment that would measure the progress of individual students and provide timely feedback to help them succeed. A "growth" method of testing would assess students as they progress through their educational career and set customized goals.
   * Highly qualified teachers. The task force report calls for more flexibility in demonstrating that teachers are highly qualified for their positions, and additional funding to help teachers meet that standard. The current program does not provide the flexibility to allow states and school districts to make common-sense judgments about the qualification of teachers.
   * Teaching to the test. The report argues that inadequate funding, coupled with standardized testing that focuses on reading and math, leads to a curriculum that ignores many important core subjects. Schools are now "teaching to the test" and should instead have adequate funding that would allow them to offer a balanced menu of courses. National data shows that more than 70 percent of schools have reduced class time for subjects such as history, geography and others in order to focus on teaching for the test. That doesn't advance education, it retards it.
   "The idea of requiring accountability from our education system is a noble one, but the current No Child Left Behind program must be changed if it is to work in a way that really improves our schools for all students," Dorgan said. "The reauthorization of this program will occur this fall in the Congress and I am going to push the recommendations from the task force to try to fix the program. The short version is to provide adequate funding, more flexibility, and an approach that reflects the needs of individual students."
   The text of the report is available here[http://dorgan.senate.gov/newsroom/extras/North%20Dakota%20NCLB%20Task%20Force%20Recommendations.pdf].
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 