'DRU'S LAW' INTRODUCED IN SENATE, WOULD ESTABLISH NATIONAL SEX OFFENDER DATABASE
  Sens. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) and Arlen Specter (R-PA), the Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, introduced legislation Thursday that would establish a national sex-offender database the public could access over the Internet.  
   The bill is called "Dru's Law," (see: http://dorgan.senate.gov/newsroom/extras/druslaw109.pdf) honoring the memory of Dru Sjodin, a young North Dakota woman who was abducted from the parking lot of a Grand Forks shopping mall in November 2003 and found six months later in a ditch, murdered. 
   The man arrested for those crimes, Alfonso Rodriguez, Jr. had served a 23-year prison term as a violent sexual offender in Minnesota and had been released from prison even though he was rated at "high risk" for re-offending. He lived just across the border from Grand Forks, in Minnesota. Had there been a national data base, North Dakotans who checked their state's registry of sexual offenders might have known a violent sex offender was living nearby. 
   "Sex offenders don't stop at state lines. Neither should sex offender registries," Dorgan said. "We need to close a dangerous loophole that currently leaves our communities and our children at risk." 
   "As the new Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, Senator Specter's sponsorship is key," Dorgan added. "He will play a key role in advancing our legislation through the committee and to the Senate floor." 
   "There is no doubt about the problem of sexual recidivists. It's something that I saw a great deal of during my 12-year tenure in the Philadelphia's District Attorney's office, and where you have danger signals, it makes sense to have a registry," Senator Specter said. "It is a national problem, and I think this is a significant step forward and I'm pleased to join Senator Dorgan as a co-sponsor." 
   Dru's Law would establish a national registry and database that concerned citizens could access via the Internet and specify a search radius, enabling them obtain a list of nearby sex offenders even across state lines. The legislation also would require that states attorneys be notified when a "high-risk" offender is about to be let loose, so the attorney can consider petitioning for continued confinement. It also requires states to seriously monitor any "high-risk" offender who is released. The man charged with Sjodin's abduction and murder was unsupervised, despite being deemed at "high risk" to re-offend. 
   Similar legislation passed the Senate last year late in the session, but the House did not act on it before adjourning.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 