SEN. DORGAN SAYS PASSAGE OF FARM BILL IS VICTORY FOR NORTH DAKOTA'S FAMILY FARMERS
  U.S. Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND) said Friday the Senate passage of the farm bill will give a boost to rural America, and said he would keep pushing to ensure the interests of family farmers in North Dakota and across the nation are served.  
   The farm bill includes a number of key provisions that will help protect North Dakota family farmers during tough times, including a reauthorized and strengthened farm safety net, enactment of country-of-origin labeling (COOL), and support for renewable fuels. The bill also includes a provision that will effectively prevent the IRS from imposing self-employment taxes on most CRP rental payments. Dorgan said the bill will go to a House-Senate conference committee early next year, and he is confident the legislation will be completed before the growing season begins.
   Dorgan said the inclusion of a permanent disaster aid program is also a big win for North Dakota family farmers and ranchers. Dorgan introduced the disaster aid program as a stand-alone bill earlier this year. He said the provision means producers will be able to depend on a helping hand when weather-related disasters hit, instead of being forced to fight for ad hoc legislation as they did in the last few years.
   Dorgan had offered an amendment that would have put a hard cap on federal farm program payments and ensure that only farmers get payments. While preserving the farm safety net, the amendment would have helped prevent abuse of the farm program and ensure its focus remains supporting family farmers. The amendment came four votes short of passage, but Dorgan said the underlying farm bill remains a strong one.
   "I'm disappointed that the Senate did not agree to my amendment to limit payments to corporate agri-factories, but this is still a good farm bill that I strongly support," Dorgan said. "We will make some important adjustments that strengthen the farm safety net, re-establish a farm disaster aid program, and ensure the Department of Agriculture puts country-of-origin labeling in place. That's a strong list of achievements that will be good for family farmers and ranchers in North Dakota."
   The farm bill also includes legislation Dorgan co-sponsored to help put a stop to the harmful effect speculation in the futures market has had on oil prices. The Close the Enron Loophole Act of 2007 gives more authority to the Commodities Futures Trading Commission to act as a "cop on the beat" to prevent excessive energy market speculation - which, by some estimates, is adding as much as $30 to the price of a barrel of oil.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 