SEN. DORGAN SAYS SENATE-APPROVED ENERGY BILL WILL BOOST NORTH DAKOTA'S RENEWABLE FUELS INDUSTRY
  U.S. Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND) said Friday the energy bill passed by the Senate Thursday night 86-8 is a significant step toward energy independence and a boost for the renewable fuels industry in North Dakota and across the nation. However, he added, it also reflects "substantial missed opportunities," as important provisions were stripped out due to a presidential veto threat.
   "This is a strong bill that will move our country forward on renewable fuels and our effort to achieve energy independence," Dorgan said. "North Dakota has the ability to produce a significant amount of energy from wind, coal, biomass, and other sources. This bill will give a boost to our energy industry that will not only help our country's energy security, but also boost our economy." 
   The energy bill will provide a significant boost to North Dakota's energy industry, especially its thriving renewable fuels, oil and coal sectors. Dorgan, who chairs two key energy subcommittees and played a major role in drafting the bill, said the legislation makes major progress in:
   * Renewable fuels. Increases to 36 billions gallons the amount of renewable fuels, such as ethanol, that will be used by the nation's automobile fleets by 2022. That's a more than five-fold increase over the level of 7.5 billion gallons that was established by a provision authored by Dorgan that was included in the Energy Policy Act of 2005. 
   * Fuel economy standards. Increases fuel efficiency standards for the nation's car and truck fleet to 35 miles per gallon by 2020. Dorgan co-authored this provision, which is the first increase in fuel efficiency standards in more than 30 years. Experts say this change alone will save 1.1 million barrels of oil per day. As a large, agriculture-based state, North Dakota drivers consume twice as much fuel per capita as New Yorkers, making it especially important that fuel efficiency standards are increased across a range of vehicles.
   * Carbon capture and storage. Greater investment in technology to improve carbon capture and storage, which will allow continued use of North Dakota's abundant coal resources.
   A threatened veto by the President, however, produced a number of missed opportunities, Dorgan said, as important provisions were dropped from the bill at the President's insistence. 
   For example, the bill would have established a national renewable electricity standard (RES) that requires utilities to generate 15 percent of their electricity from renewable sources, including wind, biomass and other renewable sources by 2020. The provision would have been a boost for renewable energy in North Dakota - which has the number 1 wind energy resource in the nation.
   Another key provision would have extended important tax incentives for renewable energy such as the production tax credit for wind and other renewable energy, clean renewable energy bonds for electric cooperatives and municipalities, tax exempt transmission bonds, ethanol and biodiesel tax credits and more.
   ""I'm going to keep pushing to get these provisions through Congress," Dorgan said. "It's the right thing for North Dakota and the right thing for our country."
   The bill now goes to the U.S. House for its final approval, which is expected next week, and will then go to the White House where the President is expected to sign it.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 