DELEGATION, GOV. HOEVEN MEET WITH TOP AIR FORCE BRASS
  Sens. Kent Conrad and Byron Dorgan, Rep. Earl Pomeroy and Gov. John Hoeven asked Air Force Chief of Staff Gen. T. Michael Moseley today to detail plans for the future growth of North Dakota's air bases.  
   In the private meeting at the Pentagon, the delegation and the governor highlighted the many strengths of North Dakota's Air Force bases in Minot and Grand Forks, and the Air National Guard base in Fargo that is home to the 119th Fighter Wing known as the Happy Hooligans. The advantages of the state's three military installations include their ample airspace, exceptional performance, outstanding facilities, lack of encroachment and supportive communities, they told the general. "General Mosley is a great friend of North Dakota. It's clear he understands that North Dakota's bases are tremendous assets for our nation's security. We used today's meeting to emphasize the fact that our military installations must continue to play a vital role in America's overall defense structure for years to come. We come away from this meeting confident that General Moseley is on the same page," the delegation and the governor said in a joint statement. 
   The North Dakota officials also asked General Moseley for an update on several specific issues, including expediting plans to base unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) at Grand Forks Air Force Base, securing a new manned flying mission for Fargo's Happy Hooligans in addition to their role in the operation of the Grand Forks- based UAVs; and preserving the nation's Intercontinental Ballistic Missile (ICBM) force, one wing of which is deployed at Minot Air Force Base. 
   "Today General Moseley, once again, indicated that the Air Force has big plans for North Dakota. Whether it's the missile and bomber wings in Minot, the Happy Hooligans in Fargo or the tankers and UAVs in Grand Forks, our bases in North Dakota will continue to play a critical role in defending the country," the delegation and governor said in a joint statement.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt, Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 