ENERGY BILL WINS FINAL SENATE APPROVAL, WILL TAKE NATION CLOSER TO ENERGY INDEPENDENCE
  U.S. Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND) said Friday the energy bill passed by the Senate Thursday night (86 - 8) is a "significant breakthrough toward greater energy independence," even though some important provisions were stripped out due to a presidential veto threat.  
   The bill contains about two thirds of the major energy policy initiatives Dorgan proposed in March when he introduced the SAFE Energy Act. 
   Dorgan, who chairs two key energy subcommittees and played a key role in drafting the bill, said the legislation makes major progress in the following areas: 
   * Renewable fuels - increases to 36 billions gallons the amount of renewable fuel, like ethanol, to Be used by the nation's automobile fleets. That's a more than a five fold increase over the 7.5 billion gallons level established by the 2005 energy bill. 
   * Fuel economy standards - increases fuel efficiency standards for the nation's car and truck fleets to 35 miles per gallon by 2020. Dorgan co-authored this provision, which is the first increase in fuel efficiency standards in more than 30 years. Experts say this change alone will save 1.1 million barrels of oil per day. 
   * Efficiency - sets greater goals and invests in advanced technologies for greater energy efficiency of residential and industrial appliances, and lighting systems for commercial and federal buildings. 
   * Carbon capture and storage - authorizes more funding to improve carbon capture and storage technology to allow continued use of North Dakota's and the nation's abundant coal resources. 
   A threatened veto by the President, however, produced a number of missed opportunities, Dorgan said, as important provisions were dropped from the bill at the President's insistence. 
   For example, originally, the bill would have established a national renewable electricity standard (RES) that requires utilities to generate 15% of their electricity from renewable sources, including wind, biomass and other renewable sources by 2020. 
   Another key provision would have extended important tax incentives for renewable energy such as the production tax credit for wind and other renewable energy, clean renewable energy bonds, tax exempt transmission bonds, ethanol and biodiesel tax credits and more. 
   "Each of those previsions would have contributed substantially to greater energy independence for our country and would have helped boost new energy industries in North Dakota," Dorgan said. 
   "But even without those provisions, this is a good energy bill that will help this country to become less dependent on foreign oil," he said. 
   The bill now goes to the U.S. House for its final approval, which is expected next week, and will then go to the White House where the President is expected to sign it.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 