DELEGATION ANNOUNCES B-52S LISTED AS TOP PRIORITY FOR AIR FORCE
  U.S. Senators Byron Dorgan and Kent Conrad and Congressman Earl Pomeroy announced today that the U.S. Air Force has placed its fleet of 76 B-52 bombers, some of which are stationed at Minot Air Force Base, on its list of top priorities for the next fiscal year. 
   The Air Force's "unfunded priority list" is designed to help Congress make decisions about how much to invest in military programs each year. It shows top priorities that the Pentagon would pursue if Congress increased funding for the Department of Defense. The delegation said the inclusion of the B-52s as a top priority is significant because they have not been included in the list in the past.
   Two years ago, the Air Force proposed cutting the B-52 fleet from 94 bombers to 56. The delegation worked to pass laws in 2006 and 2007 requiring the Air Force to keep at least 76 B-52s in service. And thanks to another law passed by the delegation, the Air Force cannot retire any B-52s without first delivering a report to Congress detailing its ability to meet war-fighting needs.
   "We have long argued that it makes sense to keep our B-52s in service because they are the most economical and effective bomb trucks in our arsenal. This new list is evidence that our argument has made headway," said Senator Dorgan, a member of the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee.
   "I never thought I would see the day when the B-52 came in ahead of the F-22 fighter plane on an Air Force priority list. But the B-52 has proven its value many times over in combat," said Senator Conrad, the Chairman of the Senate Budget Committee. "Moving the B-52 up on the Air Force's priority list shows that this bomber is an indispensable part of our nation's arsenal."
   "In North Dakota we have long known that the B-52 is an integral part of our military arsenal," Congressman Pomeroy said. "We have worked hard in Congress to ensure that the B-52 continues to play a key role in our fighting fleet, and its inclusion on the Air Force priority list means it likely will for many years to come."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 