FAA EXPANDS ELIGIBILITY WINDOW FOR ODEGARD AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL STUDENTS
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) announced Friday that the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has responded to Dorgan's request to remove an obstacle that restricted the eligibility of many recent graduates of the John D. Odegard School of Aerospace Science at the University of North Dakota to begin work as air traffic controllers in the nation's airports.  
   Several Odegard graduates had contacted Dorgan to help change an FAA policy that prevented them from beginning work as air traffic controllers. Under the policy, graduates of programs like Odegard's could be hired on an expedited basis only within two years of graduation. Dorgan made several requests to the FAA to expand that window of eligibility, and now a new FAA policy allows graduates to apply for an additional year of eligibility each year until they turn 31, the maximum age for new air traffic controllers. 
   "This is great news for students and graduates of Odegard and its top-notch air traffic control program," Dorgan said. "I'm glad the FAA understood how well-trained these graduates are and removed an obstacle that was preventing many talented people from starting the careers for which they've trained long and hard. Our nation relies on air traffic controllers ever minute of every day, so I'm pleased that more Odegard graduates will be able to serve the nation in this important role, and can fulfill their dreams of working in this demanding and exciting profession." 
   FAA Deputy Administrator Robert Sturgell, the second highest FAA official, toured the Odegard School, including its air traffic control training facility, at Dorgan's invitation in December 2003. 
   Dorgan, a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee and the Senate Aviation Subcommittee, fought to secure $9.5 million in Fiscal Year 2005 for hiring and training new air traffic controllers. 
   Dorgan noted that the Government Accountability Office estimates that about 7,000 controllers, or half of those now employed, will leave the job by 2010, creating a huge demand for the qualified workers. 
   "The FAA faces an enormous challenge to have enough well-trained professionals to keep our skies safe," Dorgan said. "By expanding the window of eligibility, the FAA will be able meet this challenge and draw from a larger pool of young people who have already demonstrated a serious commitment to air safety."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Sanjay Talwani, 202/224-2551.
 
 