SEN. DORGAN SECURES FUNDING TO READY GRAND FORKS BASE FOR UNMANNED AIRCRAFT SYSTEMS MISSION
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) secured funding in a bill approved by the Senate Appropriations Committee Thursday that will help make critical improvements to the infrastructure at Grand Forks Air Force Base to prepare for its new unmanned aircraft systems (UAS) mission. Dorgan also secured funding for a new combat training facility at Camp Grafton near Devils Lake. 
   Dorgan, a member of the Appropriations Committee, secured $13 million in the Fiscal Year 2008 Military Construction Appropriations bill to renovate Grand Forks Air Force Base's control tower. Although the tower is one of the busiest in the Air Force thanks to its support of the Grand Forks International Airport and University of North Dakota flight training program, it is undersized and its windows leak during heavy rains, putting expensive equipment in jeopardy.
   Dorgan also secured $1.28 million in the bill to convert a hangar at the base to accommodate unmanned aerial vehicles. The project will help ready the base for the new aircraft, which are expected to arrive at Grand Forks in 2009 and will be operated by Fargo's Happy Hooligans.
   The bill also includes $33.4 million in federal funding Dorgan secured to begin construction of a new combat engineer training facility at Camp Grafton near Devils Lake. The project includes building a 182,000-square-foot facility that will be used to train combat engineers from across the United States for the National Guard and Army Reserve.
   Dorgan is working with Senator Kent Conrad and Congressman Earl Pomeroy to ensure Grand Forks Air Force Base and North Dakota's other military installations have the resources they need to play a strong role in maintaining national security.
   "Grand Forks Air Force Base and Camp Grafton have a long history of serving our nation's military, and this bill recognizes that and makes sure these facilities have the infrastructure in place to continue that service," Dorgan said. "As Grand Forks Air Force Base transitions to its new mission as a hub of UAS activity, and Camp Grafton prepares to help the military train more combat engineers, this bill is a sign of the important role the Pentagon envisions for our state in maintaining our nation's security." 
   The bill now goes to the full Senate.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 