SEN. DORGAN INTRODUCES LEGISLATION, CALLS FOR INVESTIGATION OF LOSS OF TENS OF THOUSANDS OF NORTH DAKOTA VETERANS' PERSONAL DATA
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) joined Senate colleagues Wednesday in unveiling new legislation needed to protect the personal information of America's veterans. He also is requesting a Government Accountability Office investigation into the Department of Veterans' Affairs mishandling of the personal information of tens of millions of veterans and active duty military - including the names, social security numbers and other personal information of most of North Dakota's roughly 55,000 veterans, 5,000 Guardsmen and Reservists and almost all active duty personnel from the state. 
   "Someone, somewhere is running around with the names, social security numbers and other personal data on tens of thousands of North Dakota veterans," Dorgan said. "The Administration needs to get serious about safeguarding the personal information it holds, and Congress needs to make clear there will be severe penalties for anyone who gets unauthorized access to, or tries to make inappropriate use of, this information. America's soldiers, active and retired, deserve a lot better than this."
   The bill would outlaw the transfer of veterans' personal information out of a federal database, and levies strict penalties on anyone who views, uses, downloads or removes personal data from a federal database without authorization. It also establishes extra penalties for anyone who breaks the law using personal information obtained from a federal database.
   Dorgan said the GAO investigation should include an in-depth inquiry into the causes of the breach of security, the VA's response, and the impact on veterans and the military community. The data theft threatens not only the identity and financial security of millions of veterans and active military personnel, but also the safety and security of troops and their families.
   Though the 26.5 million individuals affected include all veterans who were discharged after 1975 and anyone who has ever filed for VA benefits, the VA at first did not disclose that data on active-duty soldiers and Reservists was also compromised. In some cases, the data also includes information about disabilities or soldiers' spouses.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 