SEN. DORGAN'S AMENDMENT ENSURES U.S. CITIZENS WON'T NEED PASSPORTS WHEN RETURNING FROM CANADA
  The U.S. Senate agreed Thursday to a proposal from Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) and Sen. Susan Collins (R-ME) that would ensure U.S. travelers are not required to carry a passport when returning from Canada.  
   Dorgan's amendment, added to the Homeland Security Appropriations bill on the Senate floor, scuttles an anticipated rule from the Bush Administration that would require all travelers entering the United States from Canada to show a passport. The Department of Homeland Security has agreed to work with Dorgan and others to find a low-cost alternative to passports for U.S. citizens. 
   "I believe strongly that we need to strengthen security at our borders, and worked to do so even before the attacks of September 11," Dorgan said. "But we can protect our borders without creating a serious disruption for communities on the Canadian border, where our citizens frequently travel to Canada." 
   Most of the traffic between the United States and Canada, especially in North Dakota, is routine travel that supports commercial and family interests, Dorgan said. The port of entry at Pembina, North Dakota, is crossed more than 100,000 times every month. Requiring a passport from U.S. citizens returning from Canada would not significantly improve security, but would be an undue barrier to American travelers, particularly those from border communities, Dorgan said. 
   "The process of obtaining a passport can be time-consuming and expensive," Dorgan said. "We can find a better way to ensure security at the borders that won't cost many hundreds of dollars for a family that just wants to drive up north for the weekend." 
   Dorgan's amendment does not affect other anticipated regulations from the Department of Homeland Security that will require all travelers entering the United States from Mexico, Bermuda, and the Caribbean to show passports upon entry. Non-U.S. citizens entering the country from Canada also will need a passport. The new rules would be phased in over time, and would be fully in effect by December 31, 2007.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 