SEN. DORGAN SAYS TERMINATION OF HUGE, SOLE-SOURCE HALLIBURTON CONTRACTS LONG OVERDUE, CONTRACT OVERSIGHT REMAINS PROBLEM
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) said today the decision to cancel Halliburton's sole-source logistics and Iraq reconstruction contracts is "long overdue," in light of allegations made by witnesses at hearings he has chaired looking into waste, fraud, and abuse by the company in fulfilling those contracts. 
   As Chairman of the Senate Democratic Policy Committee, Dorgan has chaired eight hearings that examined reports of wasteful spending in Iraq reconstruction contracting. The announcement that the contract will be re-bid comes in the wake of those hearings, which have contributed to civil and criminal investigations by the Pentagon's Inspector General, the Defense Criminal Investigative Service, and the FBI.
   Dorgan said he will send the Defense Department a report on all the evidence of waste, fraud and abuse by Halliburton exposed by the Democratic Policy Committee's ongoing investigation into Iraq contracting abuses. He added that he would ask the Pentagon to consider the report in its evaluation of any future bids on government contracts by Halliburton and its subsidiaries.
   Earlier this year, Dorgan introduced legislation that would bar "umbrella" contracts from being awarded to one company, and would require competition for major task orders under such contracts.
   "The evidence shows that Halliburton has billed taxpayers for over $1 billion in costs that the Pentagon's own auditors have questioned or called unreasonable," Dorgan said. "American soldiers in harm's way bathed and brushed their teeth in water that we now know to have been contaminated by dangerous bacteria. Good people who spoke up and tried to stop these outrages were fired for doing so."
   "Today's decision is welcome news, but it is long overdue and begs the question, what next? We must demand accountability for taxpayer money lost to waste, fraud, and abuse. The Pentagon should listen to its auditors and withhold unjustified payments, demand reimbursement for payments wrongfully received, and immediately resolve serious problems that affect the health and safety of our troops," Dorgan said.
   While pleased that the giant Halliburton logistics contract will now be split up and subject to competitive bidding, Dorgan said he remains concerned that the Pentagon has apparently proposed another questionable practice: outsourcing oversight of those contracts to another military contractor.
   "In the past, when the Pentagon has tasked contractors to oversee each other, conflicts of interest have run rampant. The Defense Department bears responsibility for overseeing how taxpayer dollars are spent, and they shouldn't outsource that duty to someone else," Dorgan said. He noted that he and Sen. Ron Wyden (D-OR) offered an amendment to the FY 2005 Defense Authorization bill that prohibited the outsourcing of contracting. That amendment was later signed into law.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 