SEN. DORGAN TESTIFIES BEFORE SENATE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE ON PRESCRIPTION DRUG IMPORTATION
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) pressed Wednesday for action on his bipartisan bill to allow the importation of lower-priced prescription medicines. Testifying before the Senate's Judiciary Committee, he said legislation he has co-sponsored with Sen. Olympia Snowe (R-ME) and a broad range of Senators from both parties assures the safety of imported drugs while delivering substantial savings to Americans.  
   Dorgan noted that the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office concludes that brand-name drugs cost, on average 35 to 55 percent less in other industrialized nations than they do in the United States. 
   Before the hearing, about 50 members of AARP, including North Dakota AARP President Betty Keegan, joined Dorgan and co-sponsors of the bill to voice their support for the legislation. 
   In his testimony, Dorgan pressed for a vote on his legislation this year. He noted the U.S. House of Representatives approved legislation Tuesday that would allow drug importation, and that he has a commitment from Majority Leader Bill Frist for a vote on the Senate floor on the prescription drug importation issue this year. Press reports suggest Frist may be backing off that promise, but Dorgan said he has not heard that from Frist. "I expect he will honor that promise," Dorgan said. 
   The Dorgan-Snowe bill is co-sponsored by 29 other Senators, including Ted Kennedy (D-MA), John McCain (R-AZ), Tom Daschle (D-SD), and Trent Lott (R-MS) among others. It would create a system for drug importation that ensures the safety of the medicines from the point of manufacture to the consumer. It would allow only Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved drugs manufactured in FDA-inspected facilities to be imported. Those imports would be permitted only from a limited number of countries that have drug safety systems similar to that of the United States. Perhaps most importantly, the bill allows American consumers to obtain the less expensive drugs from their local pharmacists, allowing them to continue to coordinate the patients' care and help prevent adverse drug reactions and combinations.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 