SEN. DORGAN: SENATE COMMITTEE ACTION TODAY HELPS ENSURE NEW NORTH DAKOTA VETERANS HOME IS TOP PRIORITY
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) announced Thursday the Senate Appropriations Committee has approved a provision aimed at ensuring North Dakota's Veterans Home is a top priority for federal funding in the next year. The legislation also provides a $2.6 billion increase for veterans medical care and helps expedite the opening of community-based veterans clinics in Grand Forks and Devils Lake. 
   Dorgan, a member of the Appropriations Committee, included a provision in the Fiscal Year 2008 Military Construction Appropriations bill urging the VA to promptly evaluate North Dakota's proposal to replace the Veterans Home and ensure the project is on its priority list for federal funding. Dorgan said the language in the bill will help ensure funding for the North Dakota Veterans Home remains a top priority. VA officials have assured Dorgan that they will proceed quickly to provide federal funding to replace the Veterans Home, now that state officials have appropriated matching funds and requested federal assistance.
   The bill also increases funding for the VA's community-based outreach clinics, and calls on the VA to act quickly to open new clinics in rural areas, including Grand Forks and Devils Lake. Dorgan, Senator Kent Conrad and Congressman Earl Pomeroy have pushed the VA to open the new clinics to help reduce the driving time for veterans in need of medical care.
   "The least we can do to repay the service our veterans gave to this country is to provide them with the health care they were promised," Dorgan said. "The Veterans Home in Lisbon provides quality care, but the building is very old and desperately need of improvement. This bill will make sure the VA moves quickly so we can get a new facility up and running as soon as possible. It will also help the VA open more community-based clinics so our veterans don't have to drive hundreds of miles just to get a check-up."
   The bill goes next to the full Senate for consideration.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 