SEN. DORGAN TO USE APPROPRIATIONS SEAT TO MOVE $83 MILLION SLATED FOR ?SANDBAR BIRD HOTELS' TO MEET NORTH DAKOTA WATER NEEDS
  Sen. Byron Dorgan said Monday he will use his position on the Senate Appropriations Committee to move the $83 million the Bush Administration wants to spend to build "sandbar bird hotels" in the middle of the Missouri River, to efforts to meet urgent water needs of North Dakota communities.  
   "People habitat has to take priority over bird habitat," Dorgan said. 
   The Bush budget proposes to spend $83 million next year to build up sandbars in the Missouri River for habitat for several bird species, including the endangered Piping Plover, when the Army Corps of Engineers raises river levels during times of drought to support downstream barge activity. The downstream barge activity generates just $8 million annually. 
   The sandbars only need to be raised during droughts when the Army Corps of Engineers releases increased amounts of upstream water in order to boost river levels to allow downstream barge activity to continue. 
   Dorgan said he's mystified about why the Administration would choose to spend $83 million to allow barge traffic during droughts. He noted the Administration earlier said it would only support Army Corps of Engineers projects that provide maximum return for federal dollars invested. "Spending $83 million to support an $8 million barge industry hardly meets that test," Dorgan said. 
   He also noted a recent analysis by the Army Corps of Engineers that determined halting the water releases that allow the barge traffic during droughts would actually increase net economic activity along the entire river by $13 million. 
   "I like these birds as much as anybody," Dorgan said, "and I want them protected, but this doesn't make any sense. The President is proposing to spend ten times what the barge activity generates to keep it going during droughts." 
   Even by the Army Corps' own analysis, it makes more sense to simply suspend barge navigation during droughts, Dorgan said. 
   "Leave the water levels alone. The birds will be just fine where they are. There will be a net gain of economic activity on the river of more than $13 million, and upstream communities which urgently need safe water supplies will have those priority needs met," he said. 
   To hear Senator Dorgan speak about this and other issues, go to: http://dorgan.senate.gov/newsroom/newsaudio.cfm
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Sanjay Talwani, 202/224-2551.
 
 