SENATE APPROVES DISASTER AID FOR FARMERS
  The Senate approved an amendment late Tuesday sponsored by Sens. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) and Kent Conrad (D-ND) and others to provide nearly $3 billion in emergency disaster assistance for farmers and ranchers in the Northern Great Plains. Dorgan called the Senate action "a big step" in the effort to deliver aid to farmers in North Dakota suffering economic damage from this year's flooding, frost, and drought.  
   Dorgan and Conrad have pushed for agricultural disaster assistance since early this summer, when they introduced legislation that is nearly identical to the amendment approved Tuesday night. 
   "The weather disasters in North Dakota this year have been devastating to some of our farmers and ranchers, who could be forced out of business without this aid. This assistance is urgently needed in North Dakota, which has been among the hardest hit states in the nation, with over $1 billion in economic damage to our state," Dorgan said. "I'm glad that a bipartisan group of Senators was able to make this happen. This is an important step to getting this aid to farmers and helping restore economic health to rural communities." 
   "Some parts of southwestern North Dakota recorded barely two inches of rain in a six-month period. In other parts of the state, floods prevented 1.7 million acres from even being planted, and a severe August frost killed off even more crops. I've always argued that slow-moving weather-related disasters such as these are just as devastating to their victims as hurricanes can be," Dorgan said. 
   "Now it's time for the House and Senate conferees to approve this legislation and send it to the President's desk, where I hope he will sign it as quickly as possible," Dorgan said. 
   The amendment was approved by voice vote in the Homeland Security Appropriations Bill for Fiscal Year 2005, which the Senate is expected to pass tonight. A House-Senate Conference Committee will then consider the bill, possibly as soon as this month.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt, 202/224-2551.
 
 