SEN. DORGAN INTRODUCES BILL TO LIMIT PRIVATE PROPERTY TAKINGS
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) introduced legislation in the U.S. Senate today to protect the rights of private property owners by barring the use of federal funds for economic development projects involving land taken through eminent domain.  
   Dorgan said the Supreme Court wrongfully decided earlier this year that it is legal for a government to use forced "takings" simply for the purpose of economic development. That decision sparked an outcry across the country, including in North Dakota, where a state petition has been launched by former Attorney General Heidi Heitkamp to prohibit the use of eminent domain for economic development purposes. 
   Dorgan's bill serves as a complement to that legislation, he said. His legislation, the "Private Property Protection Act," would bar the use of federal funds for any economic development project that uses property acquired through an eminent domain taking. The bill would not, however, apply to traditional public use projects, such as highways, bridges or floodwalls. 
   "It makes no sense for the Supreme Court to allow a government to use its power to let private developers build a shopping mall or condo complex using the eminent domain clause," Dorgan said. "Once you start down that path, whose property is safe? Can a local café be seized in order to provide space for a new, high-end French restaurant?" 
   "I understand there are times when the government needs to use the power of eminent domain to benefit the public good, such as the building of a floodwall to protect an entire city," he said. "But strong property rights are a fundamental part of our country's heritage, and I believe we should take steps to protect those rights -- not weaken them." 
   Dorgan said he used the North Dakota initiative as a model for his bill because he believes this issue must be addressed on both the state and federal levels. He added that he intends to push for passage of the North Dakota initiative as well.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 