SEN. DORGAN TO HOLD INDIAN AFFAIRS COMMITTEE HEARING ON SUICIDE RATE AMONG INDIAN TEENS
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND), Vice Chairman of the Senate Indian Affairs Committee, said Thursday he will hold hearings in Washington and on the Standing Rock Reservation on the prevalence of teen suicide on Indian reservations across the nation. The hearings would be the first ever held by the Senate on the topic.  
   Dorgan said the Washington hearing, which will take place in June, will include a witness from the Standing Rock Sioux Reservation. The reservation has reported 288 instances of suicidal behavior and 10 suicides since 2004, including two in the last week. The reservation includes land in North Dakota and South Dakota. 
   Dorgan also said he will hold a field hearing on the reservation within the next month as a way to gather facts from the public on the tragic epidemic that is facing that community and tribal communities across the country. 
   "I will work with the leaders of the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe and Committee Chairman John McCain to put together hearings on this issue," Dorgan said. "As sensitive as the topic is, we can't put off dealing with the issue of suicide, particularly among teenagers, on our reservations. Sadly, this issue has reached epidemic levels, and we can't push it under the rug. We need to address the root causes, the assistance that's available to troubled teens, and the funding and human resources that are needed to reverse this devastating trend." 
   The announcement came two days after the Indian Affairs Committee held a hearing on Indian health that drew comments about the Red Lake school shooting and the scourge of reservation suicides. Dorgan pointed to the cases at Standing Rock as indicative of why attention must be paid to the issue. 
   "More than one half of those who commit suicide in Indian communities have never seen a mental health professional," Dorgan said. "We need more trained counselors and other mental health professionals available on reservations to help our youth, who obviously are crying out for help." According to testimony at the hearing by an official from the Center for Mental Health Services at the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, the suicide rate among American Indian and Alaska Native between the ages of 15 and 24 is 250 percent higher than the national average, and is the second leading cause of death for that age group.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 