FLAWED 'NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND' LAW MAY NEED TO BE SCRAPPED, SEN. DORGAN SAYS AT MANDAN PRESS CONFERENCE
  Standing beside a third grade teacher at Fort Lincoln Elementary School who recently learned she was one of 3,800 North Dakota elementary school teachers the federal Department of Education says might not be qualified to continue teaching, Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) said the Department is "dead wrong."  
   He vowed to apply "relentless pressure" to fix the failures of the No Child Left Behind Act, which prompted what Dorgan called the "boneheaded assessment" of North Dakota teachers. If the Department of Education won't fix problems with the program, Dorgan said he'll work to "scrap it and tell them to start from scratch." 
   The Senator said he called Education Secretary Roderick Paige last week, and delivered that message personally. He expects to hear a response from Paige this week, and he added that he intends to get to the bottom of why North Dakota's state standards were deemed inadequate. 
   "For teachers who have provided an excellent education for North Dakota students to be told somebody in Washington, DC, thinks they aren't good enough, flies in the face of common sense," said Dorgan at a press conference in Mandan. He was joined by third grade teacher Beth Martin in the library of Fort Lincoln Elementary School. Martin has a bachelor's degree in elementary education, is licensed by the state, and has been teaching for 15 years. 
   Nevertheless, the Department of Education recently concluded North Dakota's definition of a "highly qualified" elementary teacher does not comply with No Child Left Behind. That means 3,800 North Dakota elementary school teachers-who, like Martin, have college degrees in elementary education and state licenses-would not be considered "highly qualified." Among them: approximately 75 percent of the teachers at Fort Lincoln Elementary School, Dorgan said. 
   "North Dakota has a system in place for licensing teachers, and after countless meetings with state officials and the Department of Education there was no hint that anything was wrong with that system," Dorgan said. "To be blindsided like this is really ridiculous, and I intend to get an answer that recognizes just how first-rate our teachers here in North Dakota are." 
   Joining Dorgan and Martin at the press conference were Owen Stockdill, Principal of Fort Lincoln Elementary School; Kent Hjelmstad, Superintendent of the Mandan Public Schools; Dean U. Koppelman, Chairman of the North Dakota Education Standards and Practices Board (NDESPB) and Superintendent of Dickinson Public Schools; and Janet Welk, Executive Director of the NDESPB.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Sanjay Talwani, 202/224-2551. 
 
 