SEN. DORGAN ANNOUNCES LONG-FOUGHT EFFORT WITH USDA HAS PAID OFF, NORTH DAKOTA REAP ZONES WIN TWO-YEAR EXTENSION
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) said Wednesday that Secretary of Agriculture Mike Johanns has informed him that it will agree to his request to extend by two years North Dakota's two Rural Economic Area Partnership (REAP) zones, which have paved the way for a variety of innovative economic development projects in southwestern and north-central North Dakota.  
   "This is a rare victory for rural America," Dorgan said. "We all know the potential that hard work, big ideas and dreams can have in rural counties, because that's where we're from. It's nice USDA has recognized that as well." 
   "We now have an opportunity to go even further, to dream a little bigger and continue to grow the seeds we've planted for boosting the economies of rural North Dakota communities," he said. 
   Dorgan met with USDA Secretary Mike Johanns in his Capitol Hill office in November to push the agency to extend the zone designations, which expired in September. The designation gives higher priority to economic development projects that are seeking federal funding. Dorgan said he cited examples of the progress made in the two regions, which include the Southwest Zone (Dunn, Stark, Hettinger, Adams, Bowman, Slope, Golden Valley and Billings counties, and part of the Fort Berthold Indian Reservation) and the Center of North America Coalition for Rural Development (CONAC) Zone (Towner, Benson, Pierce, Bottineau, Rolette and McHenry Counties, and the Spirit Lake and Turtle Mountain Indian Reservations). 
   Dorgan helped create the nationwide REAP zone program in 1995 when he secured a commitment for the project during a phone conversation with then-President Bill Clinton. While the President was seeking Dorgan's support for a hotly-contested budget bill, Dorgan asked Clinton to include the program as a way to help America's rural counties and the unique challenges they face in spurring economic development and stemming the tide of out-migration. 
   From that effort, Dorgan said, the REAP Zones were born, and they have since produced a trail of inspiring successes. Among them: Red Trail Energy, a recipient of a $40,000 planning grant from the REAP program that is building a lignite coal-fired ethanol plant in Richardton, North Dakota. And TechLink, he said, is another example of a collaborative business partnership aimed at expanding technology-oriented businesses opportunities in rural areas. 
   Dorgan said he is "thrilled" that the effort, which included data preparation from the Champion REAP Alliance Board, has led to an extension of the REAP designation. 
   Dorgan said he is continuing to provide appropriations to the REAP Zones. This year alone he secured $400,000 in this year's Fiscal Year 2006 appropriations bills. And overall, Dorgan has directed $3.9 million to the regions, calling it "a tremendously worthwhile investment that is building our Main Streets in a way that, I hope, will allow our young people to be a part of North Dakota's future."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt, Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 