SEN. DORGAN TO LAUNCH VENTURE CAPITAL INITIATIVE AT FEBRUARY 22 ACTION SUMMIT IN FARGO
  Venture capital is the ticket to continued expansion of the Red River Valley Research Corridor, Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) said Tuesday. Sen. Dorgan will host a Venture Capital Action Summit on February 22, the first in a multi-step plan he has launched to help attract outside investors to the region. Sen. Dorgan said he will outline several ways to boost the region's venture capital efforts at the summit, which will take place at the Ramada Plaza Suites in Fargo.  
   Dorgan said the Action Summit will focus on attracting venture capitalists to North Dakota's burgeoning high-tech Red River Valley Research Corridor. The Senator created the Corridor using federal research dollars to connect high-tech business with high-tech research at the state's colleges. 
   "You can have the best idea in the world, but it can be pretty tough to commercialize that idea without money. Venture capital is the next logical area for the Red River Valley Research Corridor to tap into," Dorgan said. "All in all, our region is where I hoped it would be today in our ability to research, develop, and prototype new technologies. It is now time for the next step: attracting outside capital to promote the commercialization of technologies developed in our region." 
   Those attending the conference will have the opportunity to meet several venture capitalists, including Ken Ehrhart of Equitek Capital and Steve Mercil of the Minnesota Investment Network, who will discuss what they look for when investing in a business or community. Joining them will be experienced leaders of high-tech companies, including Al Joseph, Chairman of Isothermal Systems Research Inc.; Stav Prodromou, CEO of Alien Technology; and Bruce McWilliams, CEO of Tessera Technologies; to offer strategies and tips for attracting venture capital dollars. 
   The Summit also will include networking time for participants to discuss their individual needs directly with these business leaders and each other. They will get information on tapping into the newly created Commercialization Opportunity Review Committee, an advisory committee designed to help businesses explore venture capital opportunities for their technology concepts. 
   For those interested in learning more about the Senator's multi-step Venture Capital Initiative, register for the Action Summit by calling the Research Corridor Coordinating Center at 888-775-0192 or visit its Web page: www.theresearchcorridor.com.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Sanjay Talwani, 202/224-2551.
 
 