DELEGATION ANNOUNCES AIR FORCE ROADMAP LISTS NORTH DAKOTA BASES AS POTENTIAL SITES FOR FUTURE WEAPONS SYSTEMS
  U.S. Senators Byron Dorgan and Kent Conrad and Congressman Earl Pomeroy announced Tuesday that a new Air Force Weapons Systems Roadmap includes all of North Dakota's Air Force installations as potential homes for the next generation of weapons systems - including bombers, tankers, unmanned aerial vehicles and joint cargo aircraft. The Air Force informed the delegation this week that North Dakota's bases will be included in the Roadmap. 
   The delegation said the Roadmap provides further confirmation of the Pentagon's commitment to North Dakota's Air Force bases. The delegation has met regularly with top Pentagon officials to make the case that North Dakota's bases are ideal locations for emerging weapons systems.
   The Roadmap lists Minot Air Force Base as a potential home for the next generation of bomber. Grand Forks Air Force Base is identified as a potential location for new air refueling tankers, as well as Predator and Global Hawk UAVs. The Happy Hooligans, Fargo's Air National Guard unit, is listed as a potential home for the new Joint Cargo Aircraft and will operate Predator UAVs in cooperation with Grand Forks.
   "Officials at the Pentagon have repeatedly told us how impressed they are with North Dakota's Air Force facilities, and how committed they are to retaining North Dakota's role as a base for advanced weapons systems," Senator Dorgan said. "This Roadmap verifies that commitment. We'll keep pushing to bring these new missions to our state, but I think the future for our Air Force bases in Minot, Grand Forks and Fargo is very bright."
   "It is telling that North Dakota is mentioned five times in the Air Force's new Weapons System Roadmap," Senator Conrad said. "Our state is very well positioned to receive several exciting new missions in coming years. That is a tribute to the superb military value of our bases and the great relationships we have with the Air Force."
   "North Dakota's strategic location and top-notch personnel combine to make our bases among the best in the nation," Congressman Pomeroy said. "The Air Force Roadmap confirms that North Dakota's Air Force bases will continue to play a vital role in our national defense for many years to come."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 