SEN. DORGAN AMENDMENT CLEARS WAY FOR MEDICARE TO NEGOTIATE LOWER DRUG PRICES
  For the first time in the long effort to lower prescription drug prices, the U.S. Senate approved an amendment, sponsored by Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) and others, that would clear the way for reversal of the current law prohibiting Medicare from negotiating with drug manufacturers for lower prescription drug prices. 
   The Senate approved Dorgan's amendment late Wednesday on a 55-44 vote. Co-sponsoring the measure along with Dorgan were Senators Olympia Snowe (R-ME), Ron Wyden (D-OR), Susan Collins (R-ME), Charles Schumer (D-NY) and Herb Kohl (D-WI).
   "This is a big first step toward removing the absurd ban on Medicare negotiating lower prices for prescription drugs," Dorgan said. "For the first time, the Senate has approved an amendment that says that ban needs to go. That is a very big step forward, since the Senate has steadfastly refused to take that position in the past."
   "This action means it will now take only a majority - instead of the two-thirds majority required last year - to repeal the ban," Dorgan said, "and there is clearly a majority of the Senate ready to do that. It's time to repeal the ban, and I expect we will do that very soon."
   The amendment was added to the Budget Resolution. It sets up a reserve fund to allow the cost of those negotiations to be paid by the Department of Health and Human Services. While costs would be involved in conducting the negotiations, Dorgan noted, the negotiations will save "billions of tax dollars each year."
   "The actual prohibition still must be repealed," Dorgan said, "but today's action by the Senate clears the way for that, by ensuring that funds will be available to conduct such negotiations and making clear that a majority of the Senate wants this done." 
   Dorgan noted that according to the Congressional Budget Office, six federal programs that are allowed to negotiate prices pay about half the average wholesale price for prescription drugs. The Pentagon pays the lowest - 41 percent.
   "This is a pretty painless way to save billions for Medicare and allow Medicare to save enough money to eliminate gaps in prescription drug coverage and offer meaningful prescription drug coverage to every senior citizen," Dorgan said.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 