SEN. DORGAN SAYS NORTH DAKOTA DAILY FUEL BILL UP $360,000 FROM LAST YEAR; CALLS FOR ADMINISTRATION TO PUT THE BRAKES ON RISING GASOLINE PRICES
  North Dakota drivers are paying a $360,000 daily "OPEC tax" on gasoline and diesel fuel compared to prices a year ago, Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) said today as he announced that he and a bipartisan group of Senators are urging President Bush to put downward pressure on fuel prices.  
   The group is asking the President to stop taking nearly 100,000 barrels of oil a day off the market and putting it into the Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR). "The Strategic Petroleum Reserve is more than 97 percent full," said Dorgan. "It makes no sense to buy oil at more than $50 per barrel and take it out of our supply." 
   Dorgan said drivers in North Dakota use about 1 million gallons of fuel each day, and average statewide fuel prices rose more than 36 cents per gallon in the past year, costing North Dakotans about $360,000 per day-more than $130 million annually. As prices at the pump rise, however, the federal government is continuing to fill the Strategic Petroleum Reserve. 
   "Residents of rural states like North Dakota are especially hit hard by fuel prices," Dorgan said. "If the Administration does nothing, high gasoline prices will continue to increasingly burden our economy, taking millions of dollars out of the hands of families and putting it straight into the pockets of OPEC." 
   In a letter to the President, Dorgan and 16 other Senators urged an "oil swap," in which the federal government could release oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve for sale to private distributors. The companies would then return oil to the Reserve at a later date when prices have subsided. 
   "An oil swap would result in a win-win situation where gasoline prices are lowered and long-term contributions are augmented at no additional cost to the taxpayer," the Senators wrote. "The SPR is intended to provide a way to damp down price spikes as working families struggle to make ends meet. That time is now." 
   To view the Senators' letter to the President, see: http://dorgan.senate.gov/newsroom/extras/030905spr.pdf.
   To hear Senator Dorgan speak about this and other issues, see: http://dorgan.senate.gov/newsroom/newsaudio.cfm.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Sanjay Talwani, 202/224-2551.
 
 