SEN. DORGAN TO HOST ACTION SUMMIT ON UNMANNED AERIAL VEHICLES AT UNIVERSITY OF NORTH DAKOTA, MARCH 22
  In another step toward expansion of the Red River Valley Research Corridor, Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) will hold an Action Summit on Wednesday, March 22, that will focus on the potential economic, research, and defense-related impact that Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) will have on the Grand Forks community and the Research Corridor as a whole. 
   Dorgan created a Center of Excellence for UAVs at the University of North Dakota last year with $1 million in federal funding. UAVs are part of the next generation of military technology, and the Grand Forks Air Force Base will be the recipient of a UAV mission as a result of last year's Base Realignment and Closure Commission.
   Dorgan said those attending the Summit will hear from some of the nation's top experts on UAV operations for national defense and homeland security, as well as from leading businesses with a stake in the growing UAV industry. In addition, attendees will brainstorm ways to tap into this growing sector in the coming years, as the city and base prepare for the arrival of the UAVs.
   "This summit is meant to make sure we don't miss the boat on all of the opportunities for economic and research endeavors related to the arrival of the UAV mission," Dorgan said.
   The Summit begins at 8:15 a.m. on Wednesday, March 22, at the UND School of Aerospace Sciences. Dorgan will address the audience at 11:00 a.m., followed by keynote speaker Brigadier General Kevin Kennedy, who serves as the Deputy Chief of Staff for Air and Space Operations at the U.S. Air Force headquarters in Washington, DC.
   At 12:00 noon, Dorgan and others will be available to members of the media to answer questions about the Action Summit and what the UAV mission and research opportunities mean for the Grand Forks community and the Red River Valley Research Corridor.
   For more information on the Action Summit, call Delore Zimmerman at 888-775-0192 or email at delore@theresearchcorridor.com.
   Details below:
   WHO: U.S. Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND); others
   WHAT: Press Availability to discuss the UAV Action Summit goals and the state of the industry's presence in Grand Forks and the Red River Valley Research Corridor
   WHEN: 12:00 p.m. - Wednesday, March 22, 2006 WHERE: Clifford Hall - Lobby UND School of Aerospace Sciences Grand Forks, North Dakota
   NOTE: Conference runs from 8:15 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. The full agenda will be available in the coming days at: www.theresearchcorridor.com.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 