DELEGATION ANNOUNCES CONGRESSIONAL APPROVAL OF WATER, ENERGY RESEARCH PROJECTS FOR NORTH DAKOTA
  Sens. Byron Dorgan and Kent Conrad and Rep. Earl Pomeroy announced Tuesday that Congress has approved an Energy and Water Appropriations bill that will support energy research in North Dakota and help bolster flood protection - including $40 million to shore up flood control in Grand Forks.  
   The delegation secured close to $79 million for North Dakota. The funding will help complete work on the flood control system in Grand Forks, North Dakota, and East Grand Forks, Minnesota, that began after the Flood of 1997. The delegation secured another $27.6 million to support the Garrison Diversion, Northwest Area Water Supply, and several other state water projects. 
   The delegation directed funding to three energy research projects at the University of North Dakota's Energy and Environmental Research Center (EERC) - focusing on fossil fuels, hydrogen technology and biomass. The bill also funds a project to create hydrogen fuel from wind at a site near Minot. 
   Other projects in the bill protect against flooding in Wahpeton and Breckenridge, Fargo's Ridgewood Addition and near the Veteran's Administration Hospital. 
   "This funding will help complete work on several flood control projects and allow North Dakotans to breathe a sigh of relief," Dorgan said. "No less important is the research in our Red River Valley Research Corridor that we've funded in this bill. It will help move our country into a future where we drive cars that run on hydrogen and get our power from coal plants that emit zero pollution." 
   "This bill provides a big boost for North Dakota. While we've secured funding to complete flood control across the state, one of the most important initiatives in this bill is the funding for completion of the Grand Forks flood control effort," Senator Conrad said. "We are also directing federal funds to support the advancement of several energy research projects at UND, ensuring that North Dakota remains at the forefront of renewable energy development." 
   "Today's announcement reflects an investment in North Dakota's future," said Pomeroy. "This funding will help Grand Forks finish the road to recovery and help other communities prevent a similar disaster. At the same time it will support the outstanding energy research that is happening in our state." 
   Specific projects include: 
   Grand Forks Flood Control, Army Corps of Engineers
  $40 million
   This funding will go to the Army Corps of Engineers to complete construction of long-term flood protection for Grand Forks, North Dakota, and East Grand Forks, Minnesota. Completion of this project will help protect residents and businesses in the region from future flooding, and prevent a recurrence of the devastating damage and loss caused by 1997 flood. 
   Garrison Diversion Project
  $27.597 million
   This funding will support Garrison Diversion and several other water projects, including the Northwest Area Water Supply (NAWS), the Williams County Rural Water System, the Williston water treatment plant, and water supply projects on four Indian reservations in North Dakota. The Garrison Diversion was authorized by Congress to compensate North Dakota for the loss of land due to the dam's construction, and to help meet North Dakota's contemporary water needs. 
   Buford-Trenton Irrigation District
  $1.125 million
   This funding will be used by the Army Corps of Engineers to purchase remaining flowage easements for cropland within the Buford-Trenton Irrigation District that has been out of production due to the rising water table behind the Garrison Dam. The rising water table has made adjacent farmland unusable or less productive. Congress authorized these easements in the 1996 Water Resources Development Act (WRDA). 
   Fossil Energy Research and Development - University of North Dakota's Energy and Environmental Research Center (EERC)
  $4 million
   This funding will be used by UND's Energy and Environmental Research Center to continue the Department of Energy's Cooperative Research and Development Program, which conducts research on advanced clean-coal technology and fossil fuels. 
   National Center for Hydrogen Technology at the EERC
  $2.5 million
   This funding would be used by UND's Energy & Environmental Research Center to continue important research at its National Center for Hydrogen Technology. The funds will help develop fuel conversion technologies in support of the Department of Energy's FutureGen Program. They will also go toward the study of coal refinery and for testing of advanced fuel cell systems used with coal-derived, hydrogen-rich fuels. 
   Mosquito Control - Williston & Trenton Service Area
  $100,000
   This funding will be used for mosquito control in the city of Williston and the Trenton Indian Service Area, which is necessary due to levee construction. The mosquito population will be controlled using methods such as controlling water levels behind the levee to decrease mosquito habitat. 
   Fargo Ridgewood Addition
  $385,000
   This funding will be used by the Army Corps of Engineers to complete plans and to begin construction on a series of levees and floodwalls aimed at protecting homes and businesses in the Ridgewood Addition of Fargo, North Dakota. The funds also will help protect the Veterans Administration Hospital from threats of flooding along the Red River. 
   Center for Biomass Utilization, University of North Dakota, Energy and Environmental Research Center (EERC)
  $1 million
   This funding will be used by the EERC for research on ways to integrate biomass with fossil fuels in conventional power systems. This research is used to determine methods of increasing baseload electricity generation from renewable sources and using biomass in advanced power systems. The EERC established a biomass research center to develop and commercialize technologies using biomass in electric generation and transportation fuels. 
   Hydrogen Wind Pilot Project
  $500,000
   This funding will be used to continue a demonstration project near Minot, North Dakota, that takes hydrogen produced from wind energy turbines and stores it as a transportation fuel for use in the agriculture sector or as electricity fuel running an internal combustion engine-driven generator. The project partners Basin Electric Power Cooperative, Stuart Energy, John Deere and North Dakota State University with the U.S. Department of Energy. The project may reveal a potential new market for wind energy in our state. 
   Breckenridge Flood Control Project
  $1.125 million
   This funding is for the Army Corps of Engineers to use in the construction of the Breckenridge flood control project, which needs to be built concurrently with the Wahpeton flood control project. The Breckenridge project received no funding in the President's budget proposal this year. Without this funding, construction on the Wahpeton and Breckenridge flood control projects likely would cease. 
   Prison Farm Riverbank Restoration
  $250,000
   This funding will be used to conduct a feasibility study for a riverbank restoration project south of Bismarck. The project would involve the stabilization of approximately 9,000 feet of riverbank and the rehabilitation of aquatic and riparian fish and wildlife habitat along the Missouri River. 
   Missouri River Water Restoration
  $188,000
   This funding will be used to address the build-up of sediment along the Missouri River, particularly in the communities of Williston and Bismarck, which are located near the headwaters of Lake Sakakawea and Lake Oahe.
 
 