SEN. DORGAN'S RED RIVER VALLEY RESEARCH CORRIDOR TAKES BIG STEP WITH NEW UNIVERSITY OF NORTH DAKOTA NEUROSCIENCE CENTER
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) celebrated the new Neuroscience Research Facility at the University of North Dakota (UND) School of Medicine and Health Sciences Friday as a world-class, high-tech facility that will benefit the state's economy and greatly enhance the School's research and the education of its students.  
   In the keynote address dedicating the new facility, Dorgan called it a major milestone for the Red River Valley Research Corridor, Dorgan's initiative to connect North Dakota universities and business with federal funding and contracts, creating good jobs and expanding the local economy. 
   He was joined at Saturday's dedication by UND President Charles Kupchella, Medical School Dean H. David Wilson, and several other university officials. 
   Dorgan, a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee secured $4 million in federal funding for the new 14,000-square-foot building, which enable the school's growth, create access to more advanced medical equipment, and provide greater opportunities to participate in research, enhancing the quality of the medical education at UND. 
   "I've been looking forward to this day for several years," Dorgan said. "This building furthers our goal of making North Dakota a hub for world-class, high-tech science and technology that will not only benefit our state's economy, but also provide lasting benefit to our nation and our world." 
   Dorgan has secured funding for several projects that have helped the School of Medicine to greatly improve its competitiveness for federal medical research funds. Among other federal grants and contracts, he secured $3.8 million for UND to receive a positron emission topography (PET) scanner and other equipment from the Office of National Drug Control Policy, allowing the School of Medicine to conduct cutting-edge research into neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's Disease and Parkinson's Disease. That equipment was dedicated in March 2004. 
   "Our nation's budget is tight and competition for federal funds is intense, but these grants are proof that when North Dakotans are given the opportunity to compete for federal research dollars, they can successfully do so," Dorgan said.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Sanjay Talwani, 202/224-2551.
 
 