SEN. DORGAN ANNOUNCES RESULTS OF NORTH DAKOTA STATE UNIVERSITY STUDY, URGES CONGRESS TO PASS HIS PESTICIDE HARMONIZATION BILL
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) announced Thursday that a North Dakota State University (NDSU) study* shows North Dakota producers would save $41 million annually if legislation offered by Dorgan that allows pesticides to travel freely between the United States and Canada is enacted.  
   Dorgan said the study - conducted by NDSU's Center for Agricultural Policy and Trade Studies - is further evidence of the benefit farmers would reap from his Pesticide Harmonization and Joint Labeling Act, which would help eliminate disparities in the price of pesticides between the United States and Canada. Because of unnecessary barriers to trade in pesticides, the price of the same product is often much higher in the United States than in Canada, Dorgan said. 
   "It makes little sense that American farmers should have to pay a premium for their pesticides when the same product, made by the same manufacturer, sold under the same name costs half as much across the border," Dorgan said. "American farmers can compete with anyone as long as they are on a level playing field. But it isn't fair to make our farmers pay higher prices for vital agricultural chemicals while we imports crops from foreign countries that are treated with those same products." 
   The NDSU researchers found that the savings from the free trade of agricultural chemicals between the United States and Canada would be substantial. The study surveyed pesticide prices in 17 states and concluded that American farmers would save $178 million in if they could buy the same agricultural chemicals they are using today at Canadian prices. 
   Dorgan said the results of this latest NDSU report reinforce the findings of previous research. Another study conducted by the Center in 2003 concluded that net farm income for small farms would increase 5.2 percent if U.S. farmers could access pesticides at the same prices as their Canadian counterparts. A 2004 study conducted by the Agricultural Marketing Policy Center at Montana State University concluded that pesticide prices differed significantly between Montana and Alberta, and prices of some products were 19 to 30 percent higher in the United States. 
   Dorgan's Pesticide Harmonization and Joint Labeling Act is pending before the Senate Agriculture Committee. It is supported by Senators Conrad Burns (R-MT), Max Baucus (D-MT), Kent Conrad (D-ND), Mark Dayton (D-MN), and Tim Johnson (D-SD).
   *http://dorgan.senate.gov/newsroom/extras/ndsu_pesticide_study.pdf
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 