SEN. DORGAN WINS FIGHT FOR MORE MISSOURI RIVER WATER
  Sens. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) and Conrad Burns (R-MT) won the first round of the battle on the Missouri River water issue in the Appropriations committee late Tuesday in the Senate. Dorgan and Burns, who are the Ranking Member and the Chairman of the Interior Appropriations Subcommittee, inserted language in their appropriations bill that set a new threshold for the Corps to take conservation measures to save water in the upper main stem dams of the Missouri River. A battle broke out in the Appropriations Committee Tuesday afternoon when Sen. Christopher Bond (R-MO) offered an amendment to try to strike the Dorgan-Burns provisions. The provisions survived on a 14 to 9 vote.  
   "It's time to share the pain on the Missouri River," Dorgan said. "I'm tired of having the water level at our reservoirs sink to new lows while we release water from the upstream dams to maintain a miniscule barge industry down south." "I want the Corps of Engineers to manage the Missouri River in a manner that's fair to all interests - not just the navigation interests downstream." Currently, under the master Manual, commercial navigation is suspended when the Missouri River basin water levels reach 31 million acre feet. The Dorgan-Burns provision raises that threshold to 40 million acre feet. Current Missouri River water levels are 36 million acre feet, which means navigation could now be suspended under the provision the two Senators wrote. 
   Dorgan said that those conservation measures would mean that more water will be retained in the upper reservoirs, including Lake Sakakawea. Dorgan said that fight will now go to the floor of the Senate, but he is determined to continue to wage the battle for fairness for the upstream states. "I'm tired of the Corps of Engineers mismanaging the River and I'm tired of downstream states asking the upstream states to bear the burden, when there's less water in the Missouri River system. That pain should be shared by all," Dorgan said. 
   "Lake Sakakawea has dropped 27 feet, and under the old conservation measures would drop another 10 feet before the Corps would determine there was a problem. That makes no sense," Dorgan said. "There's a problem now, and it's a serious one, and I want the Corps to take action now. That's why Senator Burns and I included that provision. I know it's controversial. I know that there will continue to be a fight about it, but I'm determined to wage that fight."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt, 202/224-2551.
 
 