SEN. DORGAN, BISMARCK MAYOR ANNOUNCE MAJOR STEPS IN BUILDING REGIONAL POLICE, FIRE TRAINING HUB
  The plan to build major regional training hub for fire, police and other emergency agencies took a big step forward with today's announcement by Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) that he has secured $900,000 in an appropriations bill to begin the project.  
   Dorgan, along with Bismarck Mayor John Warford and Police Chief Deb Ness, made the announcement at a press conference held at the Sleepy Hollow Fire Station in Bismarck. 
   "The threat of terrorism in the United States has changed the way we need to train emergency responders in the future," Dorgan said. "This regional training facility will bring to the Bismarck-Mandan area an advanced ability to use modern, high-tech training methods to meet today's different challenges." 
   Dorgan said when the Bismarck Memorial Police and Fire Training Complex is complete, it will be a major regional hub for the training of local, state and federal law enforcement and emergency response agencies. The funds Dorgan appropriated will help with the cost of high-tech equipment at the facility, including automated systems for firearms training, a police firing range, an explosives detonation area, K-9 and tactical training areas, and advanced communications technology. The site also will have equipment for remote sensing of chemical and biological threats, and would be used as a remote site for storage and investigation of suspicious packages and substances. 
   Dorgan said the cost of high-tech equipment is expected to be nearly half of the $2.2 million cost of the entire complex, so the $900,000 appropriation will cover a major portion of the equipment and will enable the City to move forward with the first phase of the project. 
   Bismarck officials first approached Dorgan about the complex when he visited with City leaders last January about ways he could use his seat on the Senate Appropriations Committee to be helpful to the Bismarck-Mandan area. 
   "The $900,000 that Senator Dorgan secured for the city of Bismarck goes a long way in bringing the Memorial Training Center to a reality," Mayor Warford said. "In a major emergency, local police and emergency workers will be the first responders, and they'll need the most up-to-date equipment and training available to deal with a new generation of threats," Dorgan said. "I'm looking forward to this new facility becoming a major hub for police and emergency training for the region."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Sanjay Talwani, 202/224-2551. 
 
 