SEN. DORGAN ASKS HHS TO DIAGNOSE WHY NORTH DAKOTA, OTHER NORTHERN PLAINS STATES LAG IN MEDICARE DRUG BENEFIT SIGN UP DESPITE PRESSING NEED FOR IT
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) said Thursday he has asked the Secretary of Health and Human Services to dispatch a special survey team to North Dakota and other northern Great Plains states to determine why the region, which has some of the highest percentages of senior citizens with no prescription drug coverage, is at the bottom in terms of senior citizens signing up for the new Medicare prescription drug program.  
   "North Dakotans have the highest percentage of seniors in the nation without prescription drug coverage, but our state is last in the nation in terms of percentage of seniors signing up for the new Medicare program. We need to find out why," Dorgan said. 
    With nearly half the sign-up period passed, only 9,000 of the nearly 105,000 North Dakota seniors eligible to sign up for the Medicare drug program have done so, Dorgan noted. The sign-up period began November 15 and ends May 15. 
   North Dakota has the highest percentage of seniors without prescription drug insurance coverage - 68 percent - more than any other state in the nation, even after the new Medicare program went into effect. Bordering states South Dakota and Montana are close behind. In South Dakota, 67 percent of seniors have no prescription drug coverage. In Montana, 65 percent of seniors lack coverage. Wyoming also ranks high, with 61 percent of its senior citizens lacking prescription drug coverage. 
   Nationwide, the average percentage of senior citizens without prescription drug coverage is 45 percent per state. 
   "We know the way the Bush Administration is administering this program is confusing and inexcusably complex," Dorgan said. "The Administration needs to deal with those programs immediately. But we also need to know why North Dakota and other northern Great Plains states are lagging so far behind the rest of the country even now. If something's not working here, we need to know what it is and fix it while there is still time for seniors to enroll. The need for this benefit is greatest in our region, so it makes no sense that our sign-up rate is last in the nation." 
   Of the 105,000 North Dakotans eligible for Medicare prescription drug coverage, about 25,000 already had some kind of prescription drug benefit when the Medicare program began, either through private plans or because they were previously covered by Medicaid or other federal programs. Only 9,000 North Dakota seniors have voluntarily signed up for the program, with the remaining 71,573 senior citizens in the state having no prescription drug coverage at all.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 