DELEGATION MEETS WITH AIR FORCE'S TOP CHIEF
  Sens. Byron Dorgan and Kent Conrad and Rep. Earl Pomeroy met with Air Force Chief of Staff Gen. T. Michael Moseley today for a discussion of the future missions and equipment for North Dakota's Air Force bases in Minot and Grand Forks and the Air National Guard base in Fargo.
   In the private meeting at the Pentagon, the delegation urged General Moseley to preserve and fully modernize the nation's B-52 bomber force and Intercontinental Ballistic Missile (ICBM) force, both of which are based at Minot Air Force Base, move forward with plans to base unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) at Grand Forks Air Force Base, and base the next generation of tankers at Grand Forks, once the Air force acquires those aircraft. 
   "General Moseley recognized the strategic importance of North Dakota's bases, saying they will continue to play a vital role in the nation's defense," the delegation said in a joint statement. "He knows how important North Dakota is to our nation's defense."
   In their meeting with General Moseley, the delegation stressed their concern over Pentagon plans to cut the number of B-52s in America's bomber force from 94 to 56 aircraft by fiscal year 2008. The Defense Department's proposed cost-cutting plan could impact Minot Air Force Base, one of the nation's two B-52 bomber bases. Earlier this year, Senators Conrad and Dorgan secured an amendment to the Senate version of the budget resolution to fund the entire B-52 fleet. In addition, Congressman Pomeroy was successful in his efforts to have provisions included in a House-passed defense authorization bill preventing a reduction in the number of B-52s.
   "It makes no sense to try to save money by cutting the bomber fleet. Our commanders on the ground in Iraq and Afghanistan have relied heavily on our B-52s. Grounding some of these planes now is equivalent to benching your best player in the middle of a close game," the delegation said in a joint statement.
   The delegation also discussed Air Force plans to base UAVs at Grand Forks Air Force Base, and urged General Moseley to base the new generation of air refuelling tankers there. The first of eight Predator UAVs are due to arrive at the Grand Forks base in early 2009 and the first of eight Global Hawk UAVs in 2010. In addition, Air Force plans call for pilots from Fargo's 119th Fighter Wing to begin remotely flying UAVs over Iraq and Afghanistan within the next year.
   In addition, the North Dakota leaders discussed the future of the nation's force of Minuteman III ICBMs, one wing of which is deployed at Minot. Earlier this year, the Pentagon recommended trimming 50 land-based missiles from the nation's 500-ICBM arsenal. Pentagon officials have indicated that these 50 missiles will be taken from Malmstrom Air Force Base in Montana. Senator Conrad, chairman of the Senate ICBM coalition, along with Senator Dorgan is currently championing an amendment to the 2007 Defense Authorization bill that would require the modernization of the entire ICBM force to ensure that the Minuteman III remains viable beyond 2030.
   "Our world continues to be a dangerous place," the delegation said. "It would be foolish and irresponsible to let our guard down and decrease the number of ICBMs and B-52s in America's defense force."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 