AARP ENDORSEMENT OF BIPARTISAN DRUG BILL SIGNIFIES MOMENTUM FOR PASSAGE, SEN. DORGAN SAYS
  Reflecting a "major swing of momentum," Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) announced Wednesday the AARP has decided to endorse the bipartisan prescription drug bill he is cosponsoring with Sens. Olympia Snowe (R-ME), Edward Kennedy (D-MA), John McCain (R-AZ), Tom Daschle (D-SD), Trent Lott (R-MS), Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and others.  
   "The support of the AARP, the nation's leading voice of older Americans, is a major development for this bipartisan bill," Dorgan said. "The AARP's support clearly shows the nation is at a boiling point in terms of wanting to finally pass a prescription drug importation bill that will actually drive down the cost of medicines, something all American consumers so desperately need." 
   Dorgan's comments came at a press conference held Wednesday with Senators Snowe, McCain and Stabenow, and Bill Novelli, CEO of AARP, and Marie Smith, President of AARP. 
   The Senators have pressed Majority Leader Bill Frist to schedule a vote on the bill before the July 4th recess. Sen. Judd Gregg (R-NH) has developed an alternative bill, but unlike the bipartisan bill, Dorgan said Gregg's bill fails to close the loopholes that big drug companies are using to thwart drug exports in the United States-effectively stopping importation before it even starts. 
   "The Gregg bill, in my judgment, will not make prescription drug re-importation a reality. It would allow the big drug companies to continue to over price prescription drugs to the American consumers and turn a profit at their expense," Dorgan said. "The bipartisan bill I've worked together with my colleagues to develop is the right approach at the right time, and the AARP's endorsement shows they know this to be the best chance of finally getting real reform passed." 
   The bipartisan bill, S. 2328, the Pharmaceutical Market Access and Drug Safety Act of 2004, would allow for the importation of lower-priced prescription drugs by licensed U.S. pharmacists and wholesalers from Canada and the current members of the European Union, Australia, New Zealand, Japan, and Switzerland. The bill has 24 bipartisan co-sponsors and is the only bill that represents a broad, bipartisan consensus on allowing importation of lower priced prescription medicines.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 