APPROPRIATIONS COMMITTEE SENDS ENERGY AND WATER LEGISLATION TO SENATE FLOOR WITH $84.6 MILLION FOR NORTH DAKOTA, SEN. DORGAN ANNOUNCES
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND), a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, announced Thursday that a bill directing $84.6 million to flood control, water and energy projects in North Dakota has been cleared for full Senate approval. The committee retained all of the state projects included earlier by a subcommittee, and even boosted funding for a fossil fuel research program at the University of North Dakota's Energy and Environmental Research Center.  
   It approved a further increase in federal funding for a fossil energy research and development project at the EERC in Grand Forks. The committee earmarked $4 million for the project, up from the $2.75 million approved by the Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee two days earlier. The EERC is slated to get a total of $8 million from the bill, with earmarks for a National Center for Hydrogen Technology and a Center for Biomass Utilization. 
   The committee also approved $40 million to complete the Grand Forks Flood Control Project and $30.8 million for Garrison Diversion and other area water projects, including the Northwest Area Water Supply (NAWS) project in Minot. 
   "The committee obviously saw the merit of the North Dakota projects we've worked to fund," Dorgan said. "The extra dollars we found this week for the EERC's fossil energy program will help us find new ways to use traditional sources of energy in an environmentally friendly way. The other projects will help us protect North Dakotans from future flooding disasters, while we maintain the integrity of our waters for public use." 
   The bill also includes a significant increase in flood protection funding for the Fargo Ridgewood Addition-$1.24 million, compared to $420,000 last year. The bill also boosts funding for upgrades to boat ramps and recreational facilities at Lake Sakakawea with $900,000, compared to $625,000 last year. 
   The bill goes next to the full Senate. 
   Among the projects funded in the bill: 
   Grand Forks Flood Control, Army Corps of Engineers, Construction
  $40 million
   This funding will go to the Army Corps of Engineers for completing construction of long-term flood protection for Grand Forks, North Dakota, and East Grand Forks, Minnesota. Completion of this project will help protect residents and businesses in the region from future flooding, and help prevent a recurrence of the devastating damage and loss experienced caused by 1997 flood. 
   Garrison Diversion Project
  $30.837 million
   This funding will support Garrison Diversion and several other water projects, including the Northwest Area Water Supply (NAWS), the Williams County Rural Water System, the Williston water treatment plant, and water supply projects on four Indian reservations in North Dakota. Garrison Diversion was authorized by Congress to compensate North Dakota for the loss of land due to the dam's construction, and to help meet North Dakota's contemporary water needs. 
   Buford-Trenton Irrigation District
  $1.5 million
   This funding will be used by the Army Corps of Engineers to purchase remaining flowage easements for cropland within the Buford-Trenton Irrigation District that has been out of production due to the rising water table behind the Garrison Dam. The rising water table has made adjacent farmland unusable or less productive. Congress authorized these easements in the 1996 Water Resources Development Act (WRDA). 
   Fossil Energy Research and Development - University of North Dakota's Energy and Environmental Research Center (EERC)
  $4 million
   This funding will be used by UND's Energy and Environmental Research Center to continue the Department of Energy's Cooperative Research and Development Program, which conducts research on advanced clean-coal technology and fossil fuels. 
   National Center for Hydrogen Technology at the EERC
  $3 million
   This funding would be used by UND's Energy & Environmental Research Center to continue important research at its National Center for Hydrogen Technology. Dorgan created the National Center with a $3 million earmark in last year's budget. The funds will help develop fuel conversion technologies in support of the Department of Energy's FutureGen Program. They will also go toward the study of coal refinery and for testing of advanced fuel cell systems used with coal-derived, hydrogen-rich fuels. 
   Mosquito Control - Williston & Trenton Service Area
  $100,000
   This funding will be used for mosquito control in the city of Williston and the Trenton Indian Service Area due to the levee construction.
   Fargo Ridgewood Addition
  $1.245 million
   This funding will be used by the Army Corps of Engineers to complete plans and to begin construction on a series of levees and floodwalls aimed at protecting homes and businesses in the Ridgewood Addition of Fargo, North Dakota. The funds also will help protect the Veterans Administration Hospital from consistent threats of flooding along the Red River.
   Lake Sakakawea Recreation Upgrades
  $900,000
   This funding would be used by the Friends of Lake Sakakawea to work in cooperation with the Army Corps of Engineers to ensure the recreational sites around Lake Sakakawea can be utilized. Low water levels at Lake Sakakawea, a federal lake operated by the Corps of Engineers, have damaged area tourism and recreational sites and limited boat ramp access. 
   Center for Biomass Utilization, University of North Dakota, Energy and Environmental Research Center (EERC)
  $1 million
   This funding will be used by the EERC for research on ways to integrate biomass with fossil fuels in conventional power systems. This research is used to determine methods of increasing baseload electricity generation from renewable sources and using biomass in advanced power systems. The EERC established a biomass research center to develop and commercialize technologies using biomass in electric generation and transportation fuels. 
   Hydrogen Wind Pilot Project
  $500,000
   This funding will be used to continue a demonstration project near Minot, North Dakota, that will take hydrogen produced from wind energy turbines and store it as a transportation fuel for use in the agriculture sector or as electricity fuel running an internal combustion engine driven generator. The project partners Basin Electric Power Cooperative, Stuart Energy, John Deere and North Dakota State University with the U.S. Department of Energy. The project may reveal a potential new market for wind energy in our state. 
   Breckenridge Flood Control Project
  $1.5 million
   This funding is for the Army Corps of Engineers to use in the construction of the Breckinridge flood control project, which needs to be concurrently built with the Wahpeton flood control project. The Breckenridge project received no funding in the President's budget proposal this year. Without this funding, construction on the Wahpeton and Breckenridge flood control projects likely will cease.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 