SEN. DORGAN, OTHER FARM STATE SENATORS ASK PUBLIC TO HELP IN TURNING BACK BUSH VETO THREAT FOR EMERGENCY DISASTER AID FOR FARMERS
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND), and other farm state Senators, asked family farmers Tuesday to help them turn back President Bush's threat to veto an emergency agricultural disaster package now pending in Congress, by signing on-line petitions supporting the package. They said House Speaker Dennis Hastert (R-IL) who has threatened strip the package out of the Supplemental Appropriations bill, also needs to get the message that family farmers need emergency assistance. 
   Dorgan said he has established an on-line petition urging the President and House leaders to support the package, on his Senate website, dorgan.senate.gov. It has already drawn over 1,200 signatures since he posted it Friday. A number of number of other Senators, including Mark Dayton (D-MN) and Blanche Lincoln (AR) joined Dorgan at the press conference to announce they are adding the petition to their websites as well, and Dorgan said others Senators are joining the effort.
   Dorgan added the package to the Supplemental Appropriations bill the President now threatens to veto. The amendment added a bill Senator Kent Conrad (D-ND), Dorgan and others had drafted and introduced earlier.
   "Clearly the President and the Speaker of the House are out of touch and don't yet understand the magnitude of the weather disasters that swept through much of rural America last year," Dorgan said. "Our petition gives family farmers and those who support family farming the opportunity and a vehicle for sending them a wake up call. The Katrina disaster was dramatic and devastating, but the slow-motion disasters that hit rural America last year were just as real, and also deserve and require our response. Family farming is a priority. After five years of tax cuts for the very wealthy, it is not too much to ask that we help family farmers survive," Dorgan said.
   Last year, in North Dakota more than a million acres could not be planted due to heavy rainfall and flooding. Another one million acres that were planted were flooded out and produced no crop. Nationally, Nearly 80% of the counties in the United States received a disaster designation in 2005, as drought plagued producers in the Midwest and Southwest. Illinois had its third-driest year since 1895, and parts of Texas experienced the worst drought in 50 years. Parts of Missouri, Iowa, Indiana, and Arkansas also experienced their worst drought since the '80s. The U.S. Department of Agriculture estimated that losses from drought alone in 2005 would exceed $2 billion. In Oklahoma, wildfires burned one out of every 100 acres. Texas also had devastating wildfires that killed thousands of cattle, and destroyed tens of thousands of acres. Producers in the Gulf Coast were devastated by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, with losses reaching nearly $1 billion.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 