SEN. DORGAN SAYS DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE TO INVESTIGATE REPORTS HALLIBURTON DELIVERED CONTAMINATED WATER TO U.S. TROOPS IN IRAQ
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) said Thursday that he's been informed that the Defense Department's Inspector General will investigate reports of wrongdoing by Halliburton in the performance of its contract to provide potable water to U.S. troops serving in Iraq. 
   "Halliburton and the Defense Department should be made to answer for this situation," Dorgan said. "This investigation is long overdue and I welcome it. Based on what we now know from an internal report from Halliburton's own water quality expert, Halliburton's delivery of unhealthy water to U.S. troops is completely unacceptable. On behalf of our troops and their families, we need a thorough, urgent investigation and straight answers."
   Dorgan asked the Defense Department's Inspector General to investigate allegations made at a Senate Democratic Policy Committee (DPC) hearing that Dorgan chaired last month. Employees who previously worked for Halliburton testified that U.S. troops were provided with concentrated waste from untreated water drawn just a few miles downstream from where raw sewage was discharged into the Euphrates River. That water was used by soldiers for brushing their teeth, washing their face, showering, making coffee and more.
   A leading water quality expert testified at the hearing that the use of such untreated water can cause very serious health problems.
   Halliburton declined Dorgan's invitation to appear at that hearing. Later the company said the allegations aired at the DPC hearing involved a brief and isolated instance that had since been corrected.
   "The 21-page internal Halliburton report that the Associated Press obtained and reported today, shows that neither the Defense Department nor Halliburton has been straight with us about this situation. The internal Halliburton report reveals that contaminated water was a problem nationwide, and put American soldiers who used that water at risk," Dorgan said Thursday.
   "Our troops and their families know they will face great risk in Iraq. That risk should not include behavior by contractors who cut corners and who incompetence fails to manage a program that is supposed to deliver safe water supplies."
   "The Defense Department pays Halliburton over $400 million each month for their work in Iraq. We may be stuck with Halliburton in Iraq but, after that, I think it's time that Halliburton and the Defense Department part company, given the substantial evidence of waste, fraud and abuse that has emerged with regard to the company's large, sole-source contracts."
   Dorgan has chaired seven hearings on contractor abuse in Iraq, several of which have focused on Halliburton, the largest federal contractor in Iraq.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 