SENS. DORGAN, CONRED PUSH FOR $150 MILLION FOR RURAL VA CLINICS
  Sens. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) and Kent Conrad (D-ND) today co-sponsored legislation to provide $150 million for the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to begin opening much-needed outpatient clinics in rural America. The funds would allow the VA to build clinics in Dickinson, Williston, Devils Lake, Jamestown and Grand Forks-clinics the VA designated a "priority" last year after extensive lobbying by the North Dakota Congressional Delegation.  
   Last May, the VA responded to efforts by the delegation and reversed its earlier policy-which emphasized opening new facilities in highly populated areas-and gave new priority to the establishment of community-based clinics in rural areas, including the five proposed in North Dakota. But the President's budget for Fiscal Year 2006 failed to request the funding needed to implement the VA's policy. The action taken today by Senators Dorgan and Conrad would insert funding in the federal budget for the VA to realize that goal and open the clinics. 
   "Many North Dakota veterans have to travel enormous distances to get the care they deserve. That's not right," Senators Dorgan and Conrad said in a joint statement. "These veterans served their country honorably, and now it's time for their country to provide the health care it promised them. Veterans shouldn't have to drive or be driven hundreds of miles in all kinds of weather to get outpatient services. The clinics need to be closer to where the veterans are, and there are lots of veterans in rural America." 
   The additional funding for the clinics will not add to the nation's spending bill. The costs would be offset by an amendment to the Budget Resolution that would close corporate tax loopholes, Senators Dorgan and Conrad said. 
   Senator Dorgan is a member of the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, which will write the bill approving the final funding level. Senator Conrad is the Ranking Member of the Senate Budget Committee and is managing the Budget Resolution on the Senate floor. A vote on the amendment is expected as early as this week.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Sanjay Talwani, 202/224-2551.
 
 