U.S. SENATE COMMITTEE TO EXAMINE FUEL SHORTAGE IN NORTH DAKOTA AT HEARING IN BISMARCK
  A U.S. Senate Committee hearing in Bismarck on Tuesday will investigate why there were shortages of both gasoline and diesel fuel in North Dakota this summer and fall and what can be done to prevent it from happening in the future.  
   U.S. Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND), Chairman of the Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee, will chair the committee hearing and has asked officials from the refineries that provide gasoline and diesel fuel to North Dakota to testify. He also invited a U.S. Department of Energy official to explain what caused the regional shortages. Dorgan will also inquire as to what can be done to prevent this from happening again. 
   North Dakotans paid the second highest price for gasoline in the nation this summer. And at times, both the gasoline and the diesel fuel supplies were not available when needed. The shut down of some refineries for maintenance purposes is believed to have caused some of the problems in North Dakota. 
   "We need to prevent these shortages from happening again in North Dakota. This hearing will evaluate what happened as well as strategies to make sure we don't face these problems again," Dorgan said. 
   The hearing will begin at 2:30 PM at Bismarck State College in the Missouri Room at the Student Union. This hearing is open to the public. 
   Witnesses will include a representative from the Department of Energy's Energy Information Administration; major refinery representatives including Koch Industries, owner and operator of Flint Hills Refinery in St. Paul, MN; pipeline representatives including Magellan Pipeline Co.; the North Dakota Petroleum Marketers Association; and other regional refining and pipeline industries. 
   Details on the hearing follow: 
   WHO: U.S. Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND) 
   WHAT: Hearing of the Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee 
   WHEN: 2:30 PM, Tuesday, November 20, 2007 
   WHERE: Bismarck State College, Missouri Room in Student Union, Bismarck, ND 
   WHY: To examine the current supply shortage of diesel and recent shortages of gasoline supply in North Dakota and other Great Plains states.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 