ADMINISTRATION KILLS PROVISION TO GIVE NORTH DAKOTA FARMERS MORE ACCESS TO CUBA MARKETS, SEN. DORGAN SAYS
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) said Wednesday that a House-Senate conference committee has caved to demands by the White House and dropped a provision Dorgan wrote in the Treasury-Transportation Appropriations Bill that would have removed Administration roadblocks that are limiting North Dakota farm sales to Cuba.  
   "The majority party has ignored the voices of family farmers and only chosen to hear the threats from the Administration, which has an outdated and ineffective policy toward Cuba," said Dorgan, a member of the conference committee negotiating the final version of the spending bill. 
   Earlier this year, the Administration issued a rule that prohibits U.S. exporters from shipping farm goods to Cuba until after receiving payment. This is a significant change from normal trade practice and from the previous policy, which only required payment before goods are releases to the buyer, but not necessarily prior to shipment. Now Cubans are required to pay for U.S. goods a week or so before they are delivered. 
   Dorgan said the rule was designed to make it more difficult for American farmers to sell their products to Cuba by making purchases from the U.S. more costly and more risky. 
   Both the House and Senate, in their versions of the Treasury-Transportation spending bill, agreed to withhold funding for the Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control to enforce the rule. But on Monday, Dorgan said the Administration successfully convinced the Republican leadership to drop the provision - effectively maintaining the cash-in-advance rule. 
   "What you see here is a case of kowtowing to the Administration at the expense of family farmers. Not only that, but this rule represents the exact opposite of what Congress intended when it lifted the more than 40-year-old embargo on food and medicine sales to Cuba," Dorgan said. 
   "A few weeks ago, Roger Johnson and I announced that Cuba had agreed to buy $20 million of farm products from North Dakota producers, but that didn't come without substantial effort and scaling of roadblocks. It shouldn't be that hard, and that kind of announcement shouldn't have to be so rare," Dorgan said. "It is clear the Bush Administration prefers to play South Florida politics, rather than do what is best for America's family farmers." 
   Despite the loss of the Cuba language, the bill includes millions of dollars in funding for North Dakota projects, including money for Amtrak, Essential Air Service (EAS) and the state's REAP zones, among other projects. The conference committee is expected to pass the bill in its entirely today. The House and Senate will likely vote on the bill's final passage later this week before it goes to the President for his signature.
 
 