SEN. DORGAN SAYS CAFTA WOULD UNDERMINE REGION'S SUGAR PRODUCERS
  Sen. Byron Dorgan joined North Dakota and Minnesota sugar beet producers Friday to accept petitions signed by nearly 26,000 farmers, workers, and others opposing the Central American Free Trade Agreement (CAFTA) and urging Congress to reject it.  
   Dorgan, along with other members of the North Dakota and Minnesota congressional delegations, accepted the petitions during a press conference at the Mark Nyquist farm near Fargo. Dorgan said he agrees CAFTA is a "bad deal" for the United States. "CAFTA is the first step toward destroying the U.S. sugar program. It would undermine beet growers in our region and throughout the country, and will export tens of thousands of U.S. jobs," he said. "I want to assure you I'll do everything I can to defeat it." 
   The sugar beet industry generates $2.6 billion in economic activity in North Dakota and Minnesota, according to a 1998 North Dakota State University study, a level of activity that has only increased since the study was completed, Dorgan said. It supports nearly 32,000 good paying jobs. 
   "The economic impact of the sugar industry on our local communities is very positive and very significant," Dorgan said. "I will not support a trade agreement that would destroy that industry, devastate family farmers, and ruin the economies of many local communities." 
   The CAFTA agreement with the United States involves El Salvador, Honduras, Nicaragua, Guatemala, the Dominican Republic and Costa Rica. Congress has not yet scheduled its consideration, but it could come yet this year, possibly in a "lame duck" session after the elections. 
   Dorgan cited a recent study by North Dakota State University which found those nations have 2 million metric tons of excess sugar available annually for export. If just half of that finds its way to the United States - which is virtually certain - U.S. sugar prices would be driven down 30 to 40 percent. 
   "You have to ask yourself what the people who negotiated this thing were thinking," Dorgan said. "It couldn't have been the well-being of American family farmers. CAFTA is an agreement that will, in my judgment, lead straight to the destruction of a vibrant U.S. industry and the decimation of family farms and local economies throughout the region."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt, 202/224-2551.
 
 