SEN. DORGAN PRAISES INNOVATIVE EFFORT TO IMPROVE EMERGENCY HEALTH CARE AT JAMESTOWN HOSPITAL
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) said Monday the installation of state-of-the-art technology that gives Jamestown Hospital 24-hour access to a radiologist is a shining example of an innovative approach to providing health care in rural communities. 
   Dorgan, along with hospital officials and city officials, toured the hospital's new Picture Archival and Communications System (PACS), which allows the hospital's lone radiologist to access files from home and provide emergency services around the clock. The partnership between the hospital and Daktel Communications, the local company that installed the fiber optic network for the technology, makes Jamestown one of only a handful of communities in the nation with PACS.
   "This new partnership between Jamestown Hospital and Daktel is a great example of the innovative ways we can use technology to solve one of the most significant challenges faced by communities in rural areas - access to health care," Dorgan said. "I will continue to work in Congress to find new ways to use technology to ensure people in small towns in North Dakota and across the country have access to quality health care in their own communities."
   Dorgan has worked for years to support health care in small communities and rural areas. In 2002, he created the Telepharmacy Project, which uses videoconferencing technology to connect pharmacists at "central hub" sites to registered pharmacy technicians, who fill customers' prescriptions at satellite locations. Since then, he has secured $2.95 million in federal funds for the effort and it has expanded from 10 to more than 50 sites.
   Dorgan, a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, also makes it a priority to secure funding for rural hospitals and clinics to make needed renovations, obtain crucial life-support equipment and make other changes to ensure medical services are up-to-date and available to individuals in sparsely populated areas.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 