SEN. DORGAN SAYS 40,000 BOOKS FOR KIDS COMING TO NORTH DAKOTA
  North Dakota children will soon receive 40,000 new books donated by Scholastic Corp. and K.I.D.S. (Kids In Distressed Situations), Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) announced Tuesday. Dorgan first helped bring K.I.D.S. to North Dakota in 2001. Since then, the group has distributed more than $1 million in children's clothing, toys, and other products to needy North Dakota children.  
   "Books are windows to the world, and the building blocks of learning for children," Dorgan said. "Thanks to the generosity of K.I.D.S., Scholastic, and many other companies and individuals, the lives of thousands of North Dakota children will be more enriched by the joy of reading." 
   Dorgan announced the donation via telephone to the group gathered at Theodore Jamerson Elementary School on the campus of United Tribes Technical College (UTTC). K.I.D.S. President Janice Weinman, Great Plains Food Bank Executive Director Steve Sellent, UTTC President Dr. David Gipp, a Scholastic official and nearly two dozen students participated from the school. The books will be distributed by the Great Plains Food Bank to UTTC and other non-profits around the state for needy North Dakota children. Dorgan, ranking member of the Senate Interior Appropriations Subcommittee, has used that position to work for increased funding to Indian schools and tribal colleges. At the event, students read out loud a pledge to read more, to visit libraries, and to ask parents, teachers and other adults to help them with their reading. 
   "Reading is not only a lot of fun, it's exercise for the mind. With reading, you can travel to the ancient Rome of the gladiators, to the very early days of our nation, or join in on the adventures of Lewis and Clark, and Sakakawea," Dorgan said. "I hope all the kids here and across the state will take the time to exercise their minds every day by reading, and I hope the adults in their lives will do all they can to encourage lifelong adventures in learning."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 