CONGRESS AGREES TO PROVIDE HISTORIC $68 MILLION INVESTMENT IN NORTH DAKOTA'S GARRISON DIVERSION
  U.S. Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND) announced Monday that Congressional leaders have reached an agreement on Fiscal Year 2008 appropriations that will provide $67.9 million for the Garrison Diversion - an historic amount that will help repay the federal government's debt to North Dakota. Congress is expected to give final passage this week.
   As Chairman of the Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee, Dorgan leads the effort in the Senate to set priorities and direct funding to the nation's energy and water projects. To ensure all appropriations legislation is approved by the end of the year, that bill will be included in a larger Omnibus Appropriations bill, which will fund most of the federal government's operations for Fiscal Year 2008. Dorgan worked with Congressional leaders to ensure the funding for Garrison Diversion is included in the final bill.
   The Garrison Diversion funding will be used for a number of projects promised by the federal government to North Dakota when the Garrison Dam and Lake Sakakawea were created, inundating thousands of acres of land. The amount includes nearly $10 million for the Northwest Area Water Supply project, which will bring a safe, reliable supply of water to Minot and other communities in northwestern North Dakota. 
   "This bill will make an unprecedented investment in water for the residents of North Dakota," Dorgan said. "Our state agreed many years ago to accept a permanent flood in the middle of our state, in exchange for some improvements to our infrastructure. Until now, the federal government has never repaid its debt, but I'm determined to make sure North Dakota is repaid. This funding is a significant down payment that will speed up the effort to bring potable water to rural communities in our state."
   The funding for Garrison Diversion is part of more than $127 million that Senator Dorgan secured for energy and water projects in the Omnibus Appropriations bill. A complete list of the energy and water projects in the bill is below.
   Garrison Diversion
   $67.9 million
   This funding will compensate North Dakota for land lost from the dam's construction and to help in the construction of a number of priority water projects in tribal and non-tribal communities.
   Lake Sakakawea Recreation Upgrades
   $935,000
   This funding will be used to maintain recreation when Lake Sakakawea is at low levels. The upgrades include extending boat ramps and improving docks around Lake Sakakawea.
   Elbowoods Memorial Health Center
   $2.95 million
   This funding will be used by the Corps of Engineers in cooperation with the Three Affiliated Tribes and the Indian Health Service to plan and design a new health clinic on Fort Berthold Indian Reservation. The United States made a commitment in 1949 to Three Affiliated Tribes to replace vital infrastructure that was destroyed by flooding caused by the construction of the Garrison Dam and Reservoir.
   Garrison Dam and Power Plant
   $5.8 million
   This funding will be used to replace the existing turbine runners on all five units with new runners designed to improve reliability and maximize efficiency over a broad range of operating conditions. The Garrison Dam and Power Plant produces clean, non-polluting hydroelectric power generation for the region. On average, it generates annual revenues of about $33.6 million.
   National Energy Center of Excellence at BSC
   $5.1 million
   This funding will allow Bismarck State College to establish the National Energy Center of Excellence. This funding will provide for the construction of the energy technology training and education facility that will contain a state-of-the-art lab. Course modules will also be developed for the center's nationally recognized energy technology training program.
   Lake Oahe Recreation Upgrades
   $150,000
   This funding will be used to maintain recreation when Lake Oahe is at low levels. The upgrades include extending boat ramps and improving docks around Lake Oahe.
   Standing Rock Irrigation
   The bill includes language that allows Standing Rock Sioux Tribe to access Bureau of Reclamation funding to complete the development of 2,380 acres on the Standing Rock Indian Reservation as authorized under the Garrison Diversion Unit Reformulation Act. The irrigation systems are used to grow value-added and biomass crops that bring new revenue and add new jobs to the reservation, which has unemployment rates of 25 percent in the summer and up to 65 percent in the winter. About 1,000 acres have been completed. This action will allow Standing Rock to complete development of the remaining 1,300 acres.
   Mosquito Control
   $197,000
   This funding will provide mosquito control in the city of Williston and the Trenton Indian Service Area, where a newly built levee has caused a rise in the mosquito population. Mosquito control will include controlling water levels behind the levee to decrease the mosquito habitat and applying pesticides during breeding periods.
   EERC Cooperative Research and Development
   $6.4 million
   This funding will be used by Energy and Environmental Research Center at the University of North Dakota to provide advanced clean coal technology and fossil fuel research.
   UND Therapeutic Antibodies and Vaccine Research
   $2.46 million
   This funding will be used for a collaborative project by the University of North Dakota, Mayo Clinic, and Avianax, a Midwest biotechnology firm, to research and develop vaccines and antibodies for disease threats including the Avian Flu and West Nile Virus.
   National Center for Hydrogen Technology at EERC
   $2.95 million
   This funding will allow UND's Energy and Environmental Research Center (EERC) to continue its hydrogen research at the National Center for Hydrogen Technology. Research will expand new technologies to convert coal and other energy sources to hydrogen and develop new innovative methods of storing and transporting hydrogen. In 2004, Senator Dorgan included a provision in an appropriations bill to designate the EERC as the National Center for Hydrogen Technology.
   Center for Biomass Utilization at UND's EERC
   $1.97 million
   This funding will be used for research at the Energy and Environmental Research Center to integrate biomass with fossil fuels in conventional power systems. The research will help develop production of ethanol from cellulosic biomass, advanced methods for biodiesel production and utilization of low-value biodiesel process by-products such as glycerol.
   NDSU Center for Nanoscale Energy
   $5.9 million
   This funding will be used by North Dakota State University to develop new nanomaterials that will help improve energy efficiency and reduce our country's reliance on foreign sources of energy.
   NDSU Center for High Performance Computing
   $7.9 million
   This funding will be used by North Dakota State University to increase supercomputing power at the Center for High Performance Computing. This computing power will support advanced computation application for science and engineering programs and will provide for advanced networking, modeling and simulation, authentication of users, data mining and database work.
   Red River Mapping Project
   $2.6 million
   This funding will be used to begin a basin-wide mapping of the Red River, using high-resolution digital elevation data. The elevation data will be made available on the Internet for policymakers, landowners and the public to help plan for and respond to future flooding in the Red River basin.
   Wahpeton/Breckenridge Flood Control Project
   $6.5 million
   The funding will help continue construction of the flood control project in the sister cities of Wahpeton, North Dakota, and Breckenridge, Minnesota. Construction on flood defenses for the city of Wahpeton has been stalled because Breckenridge has fallen behind, so Dorgan has worked to secure funding for work on both sides of the river.
   Devils Lake Emergency Water Source Replacement
   $5.9 million
   This funding would help bring a new water supply to the city of Devils Lake, where the current water supply is in jeopardy of being destroyed by the rising Devils Lake covering the water transmission line. Dorgan has secured millions in federal funding and authorizing language to address the Devils Lake flooding problem and worked to reestablish a regional task force to develop recommendations to ensure that steps are taken to mitigate the problems associated with continued flooding in the area.
   Fargo-Moorhead Upstream Sub-Basin Study
   $246,000
   This funding will be used to evaluate options to reduce flooding and restore aquatic ecosystems in the Fargo-Moorhead Red River Basin upstream.
   Pembina River Reconnaissance and Feasibility Study
   $590,000
   This funding will be used to complete surveys and begin a feasibility study for a flood control project that would protect Pembina, Neche and other communities along the Pembina River from flooding.
   Fargo Downtown Flood Control Project
   $300,000
   This funding will be used to complete surveys and begin a feasibility study on a flood control project that would protect downtown Fargo from future flooding.
   Homme Dam Safety
   $231,000
   This funding will be used for safety repairs to remedy significant erosion on embankment at Homme Dam, located in Walsh County near Park River and Grafton, North Dakota.
   Dakota Investigations Program
   $201,000
   This funding provides local governments and water districts with independent resource analysis to better manage water resources. Assessments will be conducted for the Willow Creek watershed, Jamestown Reservoir and the Heart Butte Unit watershed.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 