NORTH DAKOTANS CAN USE INEXPENSIVE ALTERNATIVE TO PASSPORTS FOR TRAVEL TO CANADA, SEN. DORGAN ANNOUNCES
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) announced Tuesday the U.S. Department of State and Department of Homeland Security have agreed to offer a new, inexpensive "passport card" that would allow residents of border communities to travel to and from Canada without a passport.  
   Dorgan said the new card will offer a reasonable alternative to a proposed rule, announced last year by the Administration, that would have required all travelers entering the United States to show a passport. While doing little to enhance border security, the passport requirement would have placed an undue burden on residents of border communities, where many residents travel to Canada routinely for business or vacation. The new "passport card," which will be available in late 2006, will offer a secure form of identification without stifling travel across the border, Dorgan said. 
   Since the passport requirement was announced in April 2005, Dorgan has led the fight to find "a more sensible solution to this issue." Dorgan successfully passed an amendment to an appropriations bill scuttling the proposed rule, only allowing it to be removed after agency officials agreed to work with Congress to find an alternative to a passport requirement. Dorgan also brought two senior Administration officials to Minot and Grand Forks, North Dakota, to for public hearings on the issue. 
   "I'm pleased we were able to find a way to protect our borders without creating a serious disruption for our communities on the Canadian border," Dorgan said. "The process of obtaining a passport can be time-consuming and expensive, but I'm hopeful the passport card will be a practical alternative. I will continue to work with the Departments of State and Homeland Security to make sure the passport card will help keep our borders safe from any illegal activity while allowing families and business travelers to move easily and affordably." 
   "The security benefit from a passport requirement at the Canadian border would be negligible, but the economic harm would be substantial," he said. "This news shows our efforts to communicate the harm such a rule would cause have been effective."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 