SEN. DORGAN ASKS USDA CHIEF TO SEND PERSONAL REPRESENTATIVE TO NORTH DAKOTA TO ASSESS AGRICULTURAL DAMAGE
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) Thursday spoke with Secretary of Agriculture Ann Veneman and requested that she send a personal representative to North Dakota to conduct an assessment of the more than one million acres of farmland where planting was prevented by flooding and other conditions, in order to determine what kind of help is available to North Dakota family farmers. He also asked that she begin a process to identify and make available all tools and programs in her department to help North Dakota farmers cope with the impact of the weather disaster.  
   Dorgan also wrote Gary Nelson (see: http://dorgan.senate.gov/newsroom/extras/061704nelson.PDF), State Director of the North Dakota Farm Service Agency, (USDA) in Fargo, to request that he furnish Congress with a county-by-county survey of the agricultural damage in North Dakota caused by weather conditions. He noted that in addition to the land that remains unplanted this spring due to flooding and other factors, large numbers of farmers saw crops already planted get washed away by floodwaters. 
   An evaluation of the damages is necessary to allow Congress to consider a response and to help the USDA Risk Management Agency determine what assistance will be provided to North Dakota farmers, Dorgan said. 
   "The weather has once again dealt a heavy blow to some family farmers who should not have to bear the consequences alone," Dorgan said. "The first step is to fully understand what we are facing." 
   So far, 16 counties and the Spirit Lake Indian Reservation have been included in a presidential disaster declaration, and preliminary reports indicate that most, if not all counties in the state will meet the damage threshold to be declared disaster counties, Dorgan said. 
   To view Dorgan's letter to Nelson, click on: http://dorgan.senate.gov/newsroom/extras/061704nelson.PDF
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 