SENS. DORGAN, CAMPBELL: SAVE SAKAKAWEA DOLLAR
  Sens. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) and Ben Nighthorse Campbell (R-CO) said Monday in a letter to Congressional colleagues that they will block legislation approved by a House of Representatives subcommittee to scrap the Sakakawea dollar coin for 10 years or more and replace it with a series of dollar coins depicting former Presidents. Campbell is Chairman of the Senate Indian Affairs Committee and Dorgan is a senior member of the committee.  
   A House panel recently approved a plan to end production of the Sakakawea coin and begin minting coins featuring the presidents in succession, starting with George Washington. Under this plan, each year four presidents would be depicted on new versions of the coin, with the face of Sakakawea returning after all former presidents had been featured - in 2016 or later. Instead of suspending the Sakakawea coin, Dorgan and Campbell said the U.S. Mint ought to promote its use, especially with the 200th anniversary of the Lewis and Clark expedition at hand. 
   "The timing of this proposal is particularly poor given that the Bicentennial of the Lewis and Clark Expedition is upon us. For many Americans, Sakakawea is one of the best-known aspects of the Lewis and Clark Expedition as the only woman to accompany the 33 members of the permanent party," Dorgan and Campbell wrote. "We believe that the Bicentennial will spark increased demand for this coin, and we will continue working with the Federal Reserve and the U.S. Mint to ensure that circulation problems are resolved." 
   Dorgan said Sakakawea has a unique role in American coinage and America's history. "She is the only woman and the only Native American depicted on any piece of U.S. coinage or currency now being produced," Dorgan said. "Her role in the success of the Lewis and Clark Expedition and the subsequent settlement of the American West is immeasurable. Her contribution to this country is enormous." 
   Tex Hall, Chairman of the Three Affiliated Tribes of the Fort Berthold Reservation and Chairman of the National Congress of American Indians, agreed with Dorgan. "Since the Sakakawea gold dollar coin was minted, it has represented dignity, pride and self-respect for people throughout Indian Country," Hall said. "She deserves the respect and esteem of Americans everywhere. Without her it is doubtful Lewis and Clark and their men would have been successful." 
   Under the plan endorsed by the House Domestic and International Monetary Policy Subcommittee, the new presidential coin program would begin January 1, 2006.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 