SEN. DORGAN INTRODUCES INDIAN HEALTH CARE IMPROVEMENT ACT
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND), Vice Chairman of the Senate Indian Affairs Committee, introduced the long-overdue bill to reauthorize the Indian Health Care Improvement Act Tuesday. The law is one of the most far-reaching and important statutes affecting Indian country and has not been reauthorized since 1992.  
   The legislation authorizes direct health care services, health care education and training programs, health care facilities, mental health and children's services - along with a host of other programs managed by the Indian Health Services (IHS). Dorgan said this year's bill includes substantial improvements to existing law, and will have a significant impact on Indians in North Dakota. 
   The bill would for the first time authorize funding for research and prevention efforts related to suicide among teenagers on Indian reservations. Dorgan recently held a Senate field hearing in Bismarck, North Dakota, on the topic, and he has another hearing scheduled for June 15, in Washington, DC. Dorgan also said he expects to add amendments on this topic to the bill in the coming months. 
   Dorgan said the bill would also designate North Dakota and South Dakota as a single Contract Health Service Area. Currently, the states have separate designations, but the change would allow Indians in these states to receive services from health care facilities in either state. The bill also reauthorizes efforts aimed at encouraging Native Americans to enter the "Indians into Psychology," "Indians into Nursing," and "Indians into Medicine" programs, which exist at the University of North Dakota and at other schools in Montana, Oklahoma and Alaska. 
   Similar legislation was approved by the Senate Indian Affairs Committee last year, but was never voted on by the full Senate. Dorgan said one of his top legislative priorities for the year is to "get this vitally important bill through Congress." 
   "For 13 years now, tribal communities have lived with the same outdated and inadequate health care policy," Dorgan said. "While there are enormous health care challenges facing all Americans, those who live on Indian reservations face the most dire challenges. Reservations are dealing with clusters of suicides, high rates of diabetes, problems with drug and alcohol addiction, and domestic abuse situations. And yet they are tremendously short-staffed, under-funded, and under-resourced. It's high-time the law catches up with their needs." 
   The Indian Health Care Improvement Act Amendments of 2005 authorizes programs, which then must be funded by the Senate Appropriations Committee and the full Congress. Dorgan, also a member of that committee, said securing adequate funding for these programs will be another critical step toward improving health care for Native Americans.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 