SEN. DORGAN SAYS HE, OTHER SENATORS WILL INSIST ON BENCHMARKS, WITHDRAWAL MECHANISM FOR FUTURE TRADE AGREEMENTS
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) said Thursday he and a group of other Senators will push for new requirements in future trade agreements that will measure whether those agreements are working in America's interest. They also want provisions that would allow the United States to withdraw from the agreements if they are not working in America's interest. 
   Dorgan said he'll push for specific benchmarks to measure the success of the trade agreement in terms of:
   * Net creation of U.S. jobs
   * Net improvement of U.S. wages
   * Significant increases in foreign market access
   If the benchmarks aren't met in any five year period, the U.S. Congress would vote on a privileged joint resolution directing the President to terminate the trade deal, Dorgan said.
   "Incompetently negotiated trade agreements have been made worse by the fact that nobody seems to care how they work once they are implemented," Dorgan said. "There's been little or no enforcement. U.S. workers, producers and manufacturers have paid the price. We open our market, but our trading partners all too often keep their markets closed.
   "We intend to insist on provisions that will require close and careful monitoring and reporting of how these agreements are working, benchmarks that define success or failure, and a quick way out of agreements that are not working for America's workers, producers and manufacturers," Dorgan said.
   The U.S. International Trade Commission would be tasked with analyzing the data and sending its findings to Congress.
   Dorgan said he's requesting a meeting with U.S. Trade Ambassador Susan Schwab to seek the Administration's support for the new criteria.
   Dorgan spoke at a Capitol Hill press conference, where he was joined by Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Bernie Sanders (I-VT), and Bob Casey (D-PA).
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt, Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 