DELEGATION REQUESTS AIR FORCE BRIEFING ON UNMANNED AERIAL VEHICLES
  Sens. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) and Kent Conrad (D-ND) and Rep. Earl Pomeroy (D-ND) said Tuesday they have requested a briefing from Air Force officials to discuss their plans for acquiring and basing Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs), which were mentioned in the Pentagon's base realignment recommendation as a possible new mission for military installations in Grand Forks and Fargo, North Dakota. 
   Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) are remotely piloted aircraft that can carry cameras, sensors, communications equipment, weapons and other payloads. The Air Force is rapidly increasing the effort and funding it devotes to the development of UAVs in the hope they will be able to take on many of the more dangerous missions now performed by manned aircraft. 
   Last Friday, the Pentagon announced that Grand Forks Air Force Base is slated for "realignment" and could be the recipient of "emerging" UAV missions. In today's BRAC hearing, Acting Secretary of the Air Force Michael Dominguez said, "you can't find a better UAV" location than Grand Forks. 
   The delegation said they are seeking the Air Force briefing to ask for more details about how and when UAVs might play a role in the future of the air bases at Grand Forks and Fargo. Details about the size of a mission, the timing, manpower needs, and potential economic impact are areas the delegation said they would like to discuss. 
   "Our first priority is to make the case that tankers should remain at Grand Forks, and we believe that case is strong," the delegation said in a joint statement. "But the fact that the Pentagon's BRAC recommendation cited Grand Forks as a possible site for 'emerging' UAV missions is a great sign, and we need to learn more about those possibilities. We hope that such a briefing will give us a better idea of what might be in store for the bases in Grand Forks, and possibly Fargo too, down the road."
   Two UAVs that have been used heavily in Iraq may be candidates for basing in North Dakota. The Global Hawk is a large, jet-powered aircraft that can stay aloft for 40 hours or more at 60,000 to 70,000 feet. It provides all-weather, 24-hour surveillance of the battlefield. The smaller, propeller-driven Predator UAV can stay aloft for approximately 24 hours at 25,000 feet. There are two models of the Predator-one used for the collection of battlefield intelligence and the other used to carry Hellfire air-to-ground missiles.
   In the next five years, the Pentagon plans to procure 36 Global Hawks and 74 Predator UAVs.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard,  202/224-2551.
 
 