SENS. DORGAN, CONRAD COSPONSOR NEW BILL TO REPEAL DELAY IN COUNTRY-OF-ORIGIN LABELING LAW
  Sens. Byron Dorgan and Kent Conrad continued to stand firm against the Administration's refusal to implement the country-of-origin labeling (COOL) law Thursday by introducing new, bipartisan legislation that would repeal a Republican-imposed delay of the requirement.  
   As part of the 2002 Farm Bill, Congress called for fruit, vegetables and meat to be labeled with their country of origin. The Administration and the Republican leadership opposed the law, however, and have repeatedly delayed its implementation. In late October, COOL opponents, working behind the closed doors of a House-Senate Conference Committee inserted a provision into the Agriculture Appropriations bill that further delayed the start date of the law until 2008. 
   Dorgan and Conrad said efforts to prevent COOL are only meant to appease the big meatpacking industry, which opposes meat labeling and wields a heavy hand in Congress. The bill they are cosponsoring today would require COOL to take effect by September 30, 2006. 
   "COOL is the law of the land, plain and simple. But COOL opponents refuse to recognize that and play by the rules. Instead, American farmers and ranchers lose out, Americans consumers lose out, and who wins? The big meatpackers," Dorgan said. "We label our T-shirts, shorts and shoes. The least we can do is let people know where the meat on their dinner plate comes from. I'll continue to fight this tooth and nail." 
   "COOL has been a law on the books for three years now. This delay is unacceptable and cannot continue," Conrad said. "American consumers have the right to know where there meat comes from. This is an issue about national pride and buying American, but it is also an issue about consumer safety. The American people have the right to choose between buying American beef or beef from Mexico, Central America or Europe." 
   The Senators introduced the bill with Senators Conrad Burns (R-MT), Max Baucus (D-MT), Jeff Bingaman (D-NM), Mike Enzi (R-WY), Craig Thomas (R-WY), Charles Grassley (R-IA), Tom Harkin (D-IA), Tim Johnson (D-SD) and John Thune (R-SD). 
   Earlier this week, Senators Dorgan and Conrad cosponsored another bill with Sen. Tim Johnson (D-SD) aimed at fighting the COOL delay. The bill would prohibit imported beef or lamb from benefiting from the U.S. Department of Agriculture's marketing tool that allows meat to carry a quality grade such as "USDA Choice" or "USDA Prime."
 
 