SENS. DORGAN, CONRAD SECURE FUNDING FOR LAW ENFORCEMENT, RESEARCH IN NORTH DAKOTA
  The U.S. Senate approved a bill late Tuesday night that includes $4.6 million in federal funding secured by Senators Byron Dorgan and Kent Conrad for projects in North Dakota to fight crime and drug abuse, support high-tech space research, and encourage American Indian students to pursue careers in law and government.
   Senators Dorgan and Conrad included the funding in the Fiscal Year 2008 Commerce-Justice-Science Appropriations bill. North Dakota projects funded in the bill include a project at the Upper Midwest Aerospace Consortium (UMAC), which is headquartered at the University of North Dakota, that makes data and imagery from NASA satellites available for practical applications such as precision agriculture. 
   "The Senate's passage of this bill is an important victory for law enforcement, agriculture and high-tech research in North Dakota," said Senator Dorgan, a member of the Senate Commerce-Justice-Science Appropriations Subcommittee. "This bill will help UMAC continue its important work to boost two of our most important industries - agriculture and high-tech research. It also includes funding that will help law enforcement bring meth dealers and other criminals to justice. That will strengthen not only our justice system, but our entire state."
   "This bill meets the needs of the most vulnerable in our state by protecting the victims of domestic violence and helping raise awareness to the scourge of meth. As crime rates rise across the nation -- and in North Dakota -- this bill provides the funding necessary to protect our families and our neighborhoods," Senator Conrad said. "It also makes a significant investment in UMAC, which will go a long way toward assisting thousands of North Dakotans whose livelihood is dependent on the land."
   The bill goes next to a House-Senate conference committee, which will negotiate differences between the two chambers. 
   UPPER MIDWEST AEROSPACE CONSORTIUM
  $3 MILLION
   This funding will support research and educational programs at the Upper Midwest Aerospace Consortium (UMAC), a group headquartered at UND. UMAC takes data and research from NASA's satellites and space program and makes it available to citizens in the Northern Great Plains for practical applications such as precision agriculture, land and soil management, and drought and flood mitigation.
   MINOT STATE UNIVERSITY RURAL METHAMPHETAMINE EDUCATION PROJECT
  $750,000
   This funding will be used by Minot State University's (MSU) Rural Methamphetamine Project to continue its successful Mentoring Communities program and to develop law enforcement analysis tools, including a testing kit that will help in analyzing clandestine methamphetamine labs. The Rural Methamphetamine Education Project has reached more than 64,000 North Dakotans about the adverse effects of methamphetamine.
   WILLISTON RADAR
   The bill includes language directing the National Weather Service to maintain operation of the Williston Radar Station, a vital information link providing needed weather warnings that can save the lives of both people and livestock in northwestern North Dakota. The Bush Administration has proposed to shut down the Williston Radar System, even though that plan would require residents of the Williston area to rely on Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) radar more than 40 miles away. Dorgan has worked to retain the radar site until he receives assurances that the FAA radar can provide coverage for all light to heavy weather activity.
   TURTLE MOUNTAIN COMMUNITY COLLEGE'S TRIBAL JUSTICE PROGRAM
  $250,000
   This funding will be used by Turtle Mountain Community College to expand its Legal Studies curriculum aimed at addressing the serious shortage of Native Americans trained in tribal government or law. The college will continue development of course books and materials for its nine-month and two-year Legal Studies programs and begin planning for an online, four-year Legal Studies degree.
   CHILDREN'S ADVOCACY CENTERS
  $400,000
   This funding will be used by the Children's Advocacy Centers in North Dakota to provide statewide training in the prevention, intervention and treatment of child abuse and assistance to law enforcement in the investigation and assessment of child abuse reports. The centers, located in Fargo and Bismarck, support child abuse victims and their families by providing a coordinated community response to child abuse reports.
   NATIVE AMERICANS INTO LAW
  $200,000
   This funding will support UND's Native Americans into Law program, which helps to recruit and retain American Indian students who are studying law. The funding will be used for scholarships, retention support needs, student outreach, and the Indian law library.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt, Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 