SEN. DORGAN ANNOUNCES FUNDING FOR MAJOR DEFENSE TECHNOLOGY PROJECT AT UNIVERSITY OF NORTH DAKOTA
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) announced $2.8 million in federal funding today for a major new defense technology project by the University of North Dakota (UND) and Alion Science and Technology Inc., a defense research and development company.  
   Dorgan, a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee and the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, secured the funds as part of the Defense Appropriations Bill for Fiscal Year 2005. 
   The project will develop state-of-the-art surface engineering technologies to increase the life and reliability of precision parts used in the engines, transmissions and drive systems of U.S. Army helicopters and vehicles. These technologies include super-finishing - applying an advanced lubricant film to prevent metal-on-metal contact; impact coating - applying super-hard steel coatings by thermal spraying; nanotechnology coatings - producing extremely tiny structures in coatings using lasers; and laser cladding - using lasers to fuse protective materials or alloys onto a metal surface. 
   Equipment wear is an enormous problem that costs the military billions of dollars each year. Any given day, a significant portion of U.S. weapons are out of service because they need new parts. Recent advances in manufacturing technology, such as those being developed by Alion, make it possible to extend the service life of precision parts by 100 to 300 percent, saving taxpayer dollars and improving readiness. 
   Alion and the UND School of Mines and Engineering will conduct the applied research in Grand Forks. As the project advances, several North Dakota companies will also participate as subcontractors. The project expands the Red River Valley Research Corridor, Dorgan's initiative to connect North Dakota colleges, universities and businesses with federal projects, boosting the local economy and creating good jobs. 
   "The technologies developed in this project will extend the life of military equipment, increase military readiness, and save the lives of American soldiers around the world," said Dorgan said. "This is a great opportunity for North Dakota to contribute to the work of our armed forces while developing a stronger economy here at home." 
   "This project with Alion is great for UND and for Grand Forks and will help the School of Engineering and Mines continue its growth as a center for world-class research," said UND President Charles Kupchella. "I'm pleased that we're able to take on project that will promote our national security, and I'm grateful for Senator Dorgan's efforts in securing the funding for this project." 
   "North Dakota has demonstrated that it is a great place to do the kind of complex research involved with this defense project," said Alion Science and Technology Senior Vice President Barry Watson. "We're excited to be part of the future of UND and the Red River Valley Research Corridor and look forward to working closely with North Dakota companies to develop technologies that will help our nation."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt, 202/224-2551.
 
 