SEN. DORGAN ANNOUNCES $3 MILLION IN HYDROGEN RESEARCH FOR UNIVERSITY OF NORTH DAKOTA'S ENERGY & ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH CENTER
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) announced Friday he has secured an additional $3 million this week for the Energy & Environmental Research Center (EERC) to conduct research on hydrogen technology development. The building expansion, and the new project are "vivid and real reminders that North Dakota's role in federal research is growing and on the cutting edge," said Dorgan who has made creating a Red River Research Corridor a top priority in order to bring new, high paying jobs to the state.  
   Dorgan made the announcement at the groundbreaking for EERC's new building expansion project. He said he included the money in the FY '05 Interior Appropriations bill, which was approved by the full Appropriations Committee on Tuesday. The bill now goes to the full Senate where approval is expected. 
   "The development of hydrogen is very important to our country and its long-term energy future," Dorgan said. "Through this project, EERC researchers will help our country work its way toward energy independence. The work they will do may well help revolutionize the way we fuel our automobiles, and help free us from our dangerous dependence on foreign oil. The EERC project will study ways hydrogen can be stored and used in vehicles and for other purposes." 
   Dorgan said this new funding brings the total hydrogen research at EERC to $4 million this year alone. He included a $1 million earmark in the FY '05 Defense Appropriations bill for EERC to develop ways to generate and dispense high-pressure hydrogen in the field for the U.S. Army. That legislation was signed into law earlier this year by the President. 
   Dorgan said EERC's new 47,000 square foot expansion will provide EERC room to add an additional 90 researchers. "UND's EERC is a key player in my Red River Valley Research Corridor initiative," Dorgan said. "This expansion is an important next step in growing the Center's capability and ultimately research expertise. I look forward to working with Dr. Groenewold and the EERC researchers to create new research opportunities in the future."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt, 202/224-255.
 
 