HIGH-QUALITY JOBS ON RISE IN NORTH DAKOTA, SEN. DORGAN SAYS TO HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS
  Progress is being made toward the creation of quality jobs that will enable North Dakota's youth to pursue their future without moving away from their home state, Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) told a group of high school students here Tuesday. 
   Dorgan visited Bismarck Century High School to speak with students and field questions on a range of local and national issues. Dorgan said one of his chief concerns is creating new economic opportunities in North Dakota so young people can build a career without being forced to move away.
   "The quality of life in our state is almost unmatched in the world," Dorgan said. "North Dakota offers a low crime rate, unlimited recreation opportunities in our unspoiled outdoors, and the heritage and tradition of our ancestors. But too many young people still move away after they complete their schooling to pursue economic opportunity in other states. We need to create more of those opportunities here."
   Dorgan noted his recent successes in the Red River Valley Research Corridor and his announcement that he will create a new Energy Corridor in North Dakota, as well as his efforts to pass the New Homestead Act, as just two examples of how that trend is reversing. Dorgan will create an Energy Corridor in western North Dakota to coordinate efforts to leverage federal energy programs and other resources to help expand the state's energy industry, bringing high-paying jobs to the state. The research funding Dorgan has directed to the Research Corridor, such as $123 million he secured for North Dakota projects in the Defense Appropriations bill, also will bring quality jobs to the state, he said.
   "Our young people are our most prized resource," Dorgan said. "With a little hard work and ingenuity, we can cultivate an atmosphere where you can be near your family and pursue a rewarding career at the same time."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 