SEN. DORGAN: NORTH DAKOTA HAS LOT AT STAKE IN REMAINING MONTHS OF THIS CONGRESS
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) said Wednesday North Dakota has a lot at stake in the remaining months of this Congress. He outlined four specific areas, including a highway bill, farm disaster, energy legislation and prescription drug reimportation.  
   * A New Highway Bill
   This bill still needs to be enacted. North Dakota has more miles of road per capita than nearly any state in the United States, so the Highway Bill is critically important for us and for our economy. There's a $35 million difference in North Dakota's share of the six year highway bill when comparing the Senate passed bill with the White House proposal. That translates into 16,000 jobs in our state in the six year period. That's why it's so important that this Highway Bill gets done - and gets done right. 
   * A Farm Disaster Bill 
   1.7 million acres of farm land were prevented from being planted this year because of spring storms in the northern part of the state. Other acres were destroyed by drought in the southern part of the state. We're working hard to get disaster help for those farmers. 
   If there's a disaster bill enacted to respond to the devastating damage from Hurricane Charley, we will be trying to add some funds to help those family farmers in North Dakota, and elsewhere in our region, who were hit with other disasters earlier this year. 
   * An Energy Bill
   Even with the failure of the Energy Bill, which failed by just two votes in the U.S. Senate late last year, we still need to enact parts of that bill that relate to the expired production tax credit for things like renewable energy and clean coal technology.
  At the very minimum, we must renew the production tax credit for wind energy and other renewable forms of energy. We also need to enact other tax incentives for biodiesel and enact the ethanol fuels provision. And we have to finish work on the clean coal technology provisions to allow America to use more coal resources. All of these are important to North Dakota. 
   * Prescription Drug Reimportation
   Senator Frist has previously consented to bringing legislation to the Senate floor for a vote that would allow the reimportation of FDA-approved prescription drugs from Canada. He now appears to be backing away from that commitment. North Dakotans would save $81 million a year if they paid the same price as Canadians for the identical prescription drugs. We are going to continue to fight to get our bipartisan prescription drug reimportation bill enacted by Congress in the coming months. 
   The Senate is expected to reconvene on September 7.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 