SEN. DORGAN ANNOUNCES LARGE FEDERAL GRANT, CONTRACT FOR RESEARCH AT FARGO-BASED ALDEVRON
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) announced Thursday that a consortium including Fargo-based biosciences company Aldevron LLC has landed an $11.7 million grant to develop and test new HIV vaccine candidates, and that Aldevron has signed a separate $2.45 million contract with the Department of Defense. Joined by Aldevron President and CEO Michael Chambers and other officials in a press conference at Clinical Supplies Management, another biosciences company, Sen. Dorgan said the developments are "living proof" of the boost the growing biosciences sector in his Red River Valley Research Corridor gives to the North Dakota economy.  
   Through his role on the Senate Appropriations Committee, Dorgan has directed more than $225 million in federal funds to the state's universities since he launched the Research Corridor in 2002. Among those projects is Aldevron's Parallelavax technology, which Dorgan funded in the Fiscal Year 2005 appropriations bill, and will now be used to develop and test new HIV vaccine candidates under the 4.5-year, $11.7 million grant from the National Institutes of Health. 
   After learning about Aldevron's technology, Dorgan also helped facilitate the $2.45 million DoD contract, which has now been signed. Under that project, Aldevron will use its Parallelavax technology to develop a platform for the testing of vaccines that are instrumental to the nation's fight against bio-terrorism agents. 
   Dorgan said the biosciences industry "is quickly becoming an anchor of the Red River Valley Research Corridor." "These announcements are terrific news for Aldevron and a testament to their advanced technology in the biosciences area. It means the federal government is looking to North Dakota-and the Red River Valley Research Corridor-when it thinks about which companies can lead our nation into the next phase of bioscience technology. That means good, high-paying jobs in the science industry for North Dakotans, and more business opportunities for North Dakota companies." 
   Dorgan made the announcement at a press conference held at Clinical Supplies Management, a Fargo-based biosciences company that provides supplies, training and services to the clinical and pharmaceutical industries. Company founder Gerald Finken said he too believes the Research Corridor has become a breeding ground for bioscience-oriented companies. 
   Also participating in the press conference were James Carlson, whose PRACS Institute employs 465, and expects to add 120 full-time jobs over the next three years, for contract research and in- and out-patient clinical trials; and Greg Gillispie, PhD, whose Dakota Technologies has been North Dakota's most successful company in winning competitive federal funding in the life sciences from the National Science Foundation and the National Institute of Health.
   The formation of the corridor and events like the Research Corridor Action Summit Dorgan convened on July 1 in Grand Forks, which focused on the role the bioscience industry could play in the corridor, have contributed to the growth of the sector in the region. The summit brought together leading researchers and industry officials to network and discuss strategies for developing business opportunities based on the research being conducted at North Dakota's universities. 
   Dorgan hosts Research Corridor Action Summits on a variety of sectors. He said his next summit will take place in Grand Forks on November 7 and will focus on the hydrogen industry, a sector the Senator has fought hard to expand through his role on the Senate Energy Committee.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 