SEN. DORGAN CALLS FOR INVESTIGATION OF GASOLINE PRICES, WANTS WINDFALL PROFITS TAX ON OIL COMPANIES
  Sen. Byron L. Dorgan (D-ND) Thursday called on the Federal Trade Commission[1] (FTC) to begin the formal investigation of oil and gas prices that is required in the new energy bill just signed by President Bush.  
   Dorgan, who authored the provision that requires an investigation, said current oil and gasoline prices are not the product of an open and transparent market. There is plenty of room and opportunity for consumers to be gouged by oil companies wanting to cash in on OPEC price fixing, he said. 
   Dorgan said the provision he wrote requires the FTC to launch an investigation into possible price and supply manipulation within 90 days of enactment of the energy bill. 
   "The current dramatic spikes in gasoline prices are forcing consumers to pay higher prices and are providing fat profits for the major oil companies and the OPEC countries," Dorgan said. 
   All American consumers are feeling the pain of these price hikes, but people in rural states are hit the hardest, Dorgan said. For example, he said, the average North Dakotan uses twice as much gasoline as the average New Yorker. Therefore, his constituents are hit twice as hard by the huge price increases. 
   Dorgan also said today he is going to introduce a windfall profits tax on the major integrated oil companies that are reaping an extra $7 billion in profits each month because of skyrocketing oil prices, which have jumped more than $30 per barrel since the beginning of 2004. These biggest oil companies stand to gain up to $80 billion in the next year in windfall profits. 
   Since oil prices spiked, U.S. consumers will pay nearly $200 billion a year more for oil and gasoline products, Dorgan said. About $120 billion of that goes to the foreign countries from whom the U.S. purchases oil, including Saudi Arabia and other Middle Eastern countries. An estimated $80 billion goes to the major U.S. oil companies to fatten their bank accounts-even though they have little or no additional expense in producing that oil, Dorgan said. 
   "This has nothing to do with a free market," Dorgan maintained. "It is about the OPEC countries and the major oil companies profiting in a controlled market that rewards them and penalizes our consumers." 
   He said his proposal for a windfall profits tax would provide an exemption for companies who use their profits to directly invest in new oil and gas exploration and increase refining capacity. Revenue from the windfall profits tax would be used to provide rebates to consumers who are paying inflated prices for gas and oil products. 
   Dorgan is also the author of a provision in the energy bill that, in the long term, will create a new hydrogen fuel cell future for powering our vehicles and remove what he calls "our addiction" to foreign oil. 
   The Senator said he plans to introduce his legislation on a windfall profits tax in September when the Senate reconvenes. 
   [1]For the Federal Trade Commission, see http://dorgan.senate.gov/newsroom/extras/081705_FTC_invest_1809.pdf
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 