SEN. DORGAN OFFERS IDEAS FOR ECONOMIC STIMULUS
  U.S. Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND) is sending President Bush and congressional leaders suggestions for the economic stimulus package the President and Congress will develop in the coming weeks. Dorgan says such a package is needed to provide an immediate boost to the struggling economy. He said it is important that it is temporary, targets middle and low income Americans, and encourages business investment. 
   "Recent economic data show that job growth has already slowed to a near standstill, the unemployment rate has jumped, the trade deficit has hit a 24-month high, oil prices are way up and retail sales are the worst in years. It's no surprise that consumer confidence has plummeted," Dorgan wrote in a letter to the President Friday.
   Dorgan said his proposals could help stimulate the economy without making the nation's long term fiscal challenges worse.
   Among Dorgan's suggestions:
   1. Tax rebates for middle and low income taxpayers. Past tax rebates left out many moderate and low income Americans who pay substantial payroll taxes, but little or no federal income tax, Dorgan noted. Providing a tax rebate to these Americans, Dorgan said, would be more equitable and a more effective way of putting money into the hands of those most likely to put it back into the economy by spending it.
   2. Extend unemployment insurance benefits. Extending unemployment insurance benefits not only recognizes the reality of a tough job market in a sagging economy and provides "critically important" assistance, but would put stimulus money in the hands of families who will spend it.
   3. 15 percent temporary investment tax credit. Noting that manufacturers and producers are likely to delay equipment and machinery purchases in a sluggish economy, a temporary 15 percent investment credit through September 30, 2008, would encourage them to buy that equipment now, providing new economic activity.
   4. Enhanced depreciation and increased expensing. Allowing more rapid write offs of business investments would also encourage businesses to buy new machinery and equipment. For small business owners on rural Main Streets, it would also provide financial incentives to make storefront and other structural improvements.
   Dorgan said he looks forward to working together with the President and other congressional leaders in a bipartisan manner to assemble a "temporary but potent stimulus package that strengthens our economy now, when it is really needed."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 