SEN. DORGAN PRESSES ATTORNEY GENERAL NOMINEE GONZALES TO SUPPORT 'DRU'S LAW'
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) met Tuesday with Judge Alberto Gonzales, President Bush's nominee to become the next Attorney General, to brief him on Dru's Law and to ask for his support of the bill, which Dorgan introduced last year to create a national sex offender database and other tools to protect the public from high-risk sex offenders.  
   Dorgan said he was encouraged by the meeting, which took place in Dorgan's office, and that Gonzales called Dru's Law a "worthy goal." 
   "The public has a right to convenient and comprehensive information regarding the whereabouts of sex offenders. That's what my bill calls for a national online sex offender registry that allows the public to search for offenders across state lines. It also gives states more options for dealing with these offenders," Dorgan said. "The purpose of my meeting with Judge Gonzales was to explain the details of Dru's Law and ask him to consider working with me on putting it into action once the bill is law, which I hope and believe will happen this year." 
   The Senate passed the bill unanimously in November, but because the House didn't vote on the bill before the end of the Congressional session Dorgan must reintroduce the bill this year. He said he plans to do that early in this new session. 
   As Attorney General, Gonzales would be in charge of implementing and enforcing the law, which in addition to creating a national sex offender database would also require states to notify their States' Attorneys when high-risk offenders are released from prison-allowing the Attorneys to consider seeking civil commitments for offenders. The bill also would require intensive state supervision - such as electronic monitoring or other methods - of high-risk offenders released from prison for at least a year. 
   Dorgan named the bill Dru's Law at the request of the family of Dru Sjodin, the University of North Dakota student abducted and killed a year ago near Grand Forks. The suspect arrested and charged in the case is a high-risk repeat sex offender who lived only a few miles away, across the border in Minnesota.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Sanjay Talwani, 202/224-2551.
 
 