SEN. DORGAN TO PROPOSE ONE YEAR PAUSE IN BUYING OIL FOR STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVE
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND), Chairman of the Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee, said Monday he will propose in his appropriations bill "chairman's mark" a one year pause in purchasing oil for the Strategic Petroleum Reserve. Dorgan will present his "chairman's mark" when the subcommittee meets June 26.  
   President Bush has proposed expanding the Strategic Petroleum Reserve by nearly 50 percent by purchasing oil from oil companies and storing it in a Strategic Petroleum Reserve. 
   "Taking oil out of the supply stream at a time when oil prices and gasoline prices are at record highs makes no sense to me at all," Dorgan said. 
   "The reserve is now nearly 97 percent full," Dorgan said. "I think we should take a one year pause before we start on the new goal of expanding the reserve. Expanding the reserve now means the government will be removing oil from the marketplace, decreasing supply, and putting upward pressure on gasoline prices at a time when gasoline prices are already at near record levels." 
   "A one year pause means that supplies will not be artificially reduced by the government, and that the government would not be adding to upward pressure on gasoline prices when they are already very high." 
   Dorgan said his "chairman's mark" will deny the added funds the President is requesting for the coming fiscal year to expand the Strategic Petroleum Reserve. 
   He said his "chairman's mark" will also recommend that the "Royalty-in-Kind" program, which would put 8 to 9 million additional barrels under ground over the next year would have the government paid in cash for those royalties, rather than with oil. Otherwise, that oil would be taken out of supply and put in the Strategic Petroleum Reserve during this pause. 
   The Strategic Petroleum Reserve now has 689 million barrels of oil in it with a current capacity of 727 million barrels. The energy bill, enacted two years ago, authorizes expanding the reserve to 1 billion barrels. In addition the President is proposing to expand the reserve in the future to as much as 1.5 billion barrels.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 