PIVOTAL BRAC HEARING SUGGESTS GRAND FORKS IN GOOD SHAPE FOR UPCOMING VOTE, DELEGATION SAYS
  Sens. Byron Dorgan and Kent Conrad and Rep. Earl Pomeroy said they got "positive signals for the future of the Grand Forks Air Force Base," after hearing questions posed by members of the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission and the answers from Pentagon officials at Monday's hearing on Capitol Hill.  
   The nine-member BRAC Commission will vote tomorrow on whether to add any bases to the list of recommendations for closure. The purpose of today's hearing was for BRAC Commissioners to probe Pentagon officials about the rationale behind their specific recommendations. 
   "The Air Force made a compelling case today - one that we've been making all along: The first-rate facilities and personnel, the strategic location and the proximity of the high-performing Happy Hooligans unit make Grand Forks a critical part of the nation's defense," the delegation said in a joint statement. "We are quite confident that the BRAC Commission will make the correct decision and keep Grand Forks Air Force Base off the closure list." 
   The Air Force based its justification for keeping Grand Forks open on the base's ability to meet the military's need for more Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) facilities, the state's northern tier location and surge capability, and its close proximity to the Fargo National Guard Unit. 
   In response to a question from Commissioner General James Hill, General T. Michael Moseley said Air Force needs in Iraq and Afghanistan are driving plans to develop at least 12 UAV orbits, and that the military will need outstanding bases at which to house the planes to fly these orbits. He also cited the "very-well respected and very capable nearby Air Guard facility" in Fargo as an asset for placing a UAV mission in Grand Forks. "This is an opportunity to be able to put these in a place where we can reap the benefits of a very capable Guard unit and the experience at Grand Forks, as well as move into the future with this family of UAVs. I believe that Grand Forks is critical to this plan," Moseley said. 
   Commissioner Admiral Harold Gehman, Jr. (Ret.) asked Michael Wynne, the Pentagon's technology and weapons-buying chief, and General Moseley to explain the military value of keeping the Grand Forks base open. "Having a strategic presence near our borders in America made sense from a homeland security standpoint," Wynne said as he cited the importance of preparing for future surge needs-the ability to mobilize troops overseas quickly. 
   Later, Commissioner Philip Coyle, who participated in the June 23 BRAC field hearing in Grand Forks, asked about moving the tankers from Grand Forks, saying, "Isn't Grand Forks an especially advantageous location for tankers because of great circle transit north and over the Pole?" Moseley said, "absolutely," and explained that an assessment about the size of the military's future tanker force is still being formulated. 
   Tomorrow's BRAC Commission vote will begin at 1:30 p.m. EDT and is expected to last approximately three hours. It takes votes by seven of the nine commissioners to add a base to the list for consideration for closure.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 