SEN. DORGAN ANNOUNCES BISMARCK STATE COLLEGE DESIGNATION AS NATIONAL POWER PLANT OPERATIONS TECHNOLOGY AND EDUCATIONAL CENTER
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) announced Friday that U.S. Energy Secretary Samuel Bodman has officially designated Bismarck State College (BSC) as the National Power Plant Operations Technology and Educational Center. Dorgan said the designation is a recognition of the school's cutting-edge education and training program. This designation will help attract students, industry, and federal funding to help carry out BSC's mission.  
   Dorgan authored legislation, which was signed into law, that created the National Center designation. He said he will present the designation formally to BSC officials at the Renewable Fuels Action Summit he is co-hosting Sunday and Monday at the school. 
   "Bismarck State College has created a focus of power plant training that is unique in our country and it has given them a national reputation in an area of training and education that has a very bright future," Dorgan said. "This designation is a mark of excellence from the federal government, and I am very proud of this program at BSC. It is strategically located in a state that is producing a lot of energy, and this program fits the future needs of our state and, more importantly, further solidifies Bismarck State College's position as a premier national center for power plant education and training." 
   Dorgan is also working to establish an office at Bismarck State College to coordinate the Energy Corridor he has created. The office would serve as a hub for the players in North Dakota's diverse energy industry to share information and research and help spur development of the state's energy resources. 
   "Bismarck State College is poised to play a very significant role in North Dakota's energy future," Dorgan said. "It is strategically located and has been focused on developing an agenda that fits the needs of our energy future in North Dakota."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 