SEN. DORGAN PRESSES CORPS FOR PERMANENT FT. YATES WATER FIX
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND), at a hearing of the Senate Indian Affairs Committee Thursday, pressed Army Corps of Engineers officials to change their management of the Missouri River so that the major water supply disruption that occurred last November on the Standing Rock Sioux Reservation does not happen again. 
   At that time, an intake pipe serving the Reservation failed, interrupting water supplies for several days, including the Thanksgiving holiday, and forcing the hospital in Ft. Yates to close.
   Standing Rock Tribal Chairman Charlie Murphy and Councilman Mike Claymore testified at the hearing.
   Dorgan, a member of the Committee, said he was pleased that the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation reprogrammed $2.8 million to cover costs related to the repair of the damaged water intake system, and he praised tribal leaders for their swift actions to deal with the crisis. But he told Corps Brigadier General William Grisoli that the entire problem could have been avoided if the Corps would have stopped mismanaging the river. "I blame this entire mess on the Corps' mismanagement," Dorgan said. "The Corps had the opportunity to change its management practices on the River to produce a net benefit for the entire basin. Instead, the Corps has simply kept the status quo of favoring the barge industry downstream at the expense of upstream communities."
   "Citizens of Standing Rock did not have potable water for several days last Thanksgiving, requiring the tribe to truck water in," Dorgan continued. "I hold the Corps responsible for this situation. Even worse, the water crisis endangered residents' health and safety, forcing dialysis patients and others to be turned away from the local hospital. With the kinds of distances we face in North Dakota, that can be life-threatening."
   Dorgan also said he would continue pressing the Bureau of Reclamation for reimbursement to the tribe for additional expenses incurred during the water crisis.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Sanjay Talwani, 202/224-2551. 
 
 