CONGRESS APPROVES BILL SUPPORTING EDUCATION, LAW ENFORCEMENT, OTHER PROJECTS IN NORTH DAKOTA, DELEGATION ANNOUNCES
  Sens. Byron Dorgan and Kent Conrad and Rep. Earl Pomeroy announced Friday that Congress has approved a Science, State, Justice and Commerce Appropriations bill including projects that support higher education research, encourage American Indians to enter legal and government professions, and improve law enforcement in North Dakota.  
   The delegation secured more than $8 million in federal funds for projects in the state, as well as a provision that prevents the National Weather Service from closing its radar station in Williston in the next fiscal year, ensuring weather forecasts in the area will not be disrupted. 
   Several of the projects will generate research and other work at the state's universities. The delegation directed funding to projects at a University of North Dakota (UND)-based consortium that applies NASA satellite imagery for use by agricultural producers, educators and land managers. The bill also channels funds to the school's Native Americans Into Law program. Although funding was cut for some federally funded local law enforcement grants, the delegation was able to secure funding for the state's nine highly successful drug enforcement task forces and a project at Minot State University that aims to prevent the production and use of methamphetamines. Another project at North Dakota State University (NDSU) will develop a laboratory to analyze DNA for criminal justice purposes. 
   "The issues of education and law enforcement are priorities in North Dakota," Dorgan said. "We have projects underway in our state that are going to make a real difference in people's lives, and I'm proud we were able to fund them." 
   "While North Dakota will receive funding for several important projects, I voted against final passage because the conference committee took out critically important funding for law enforcement and prosecutors fighting meth abuse in rural areas," Senator Conrad said. "I was also concerned about what I see as overspending by the U.S. State Department on various construction projects." 
   "Each of these projects is an important investment in North Dakota," Pomeroy said. "We are investing in the future of our state both through education and making our communities safer by combating drug use." 
   Specific projects include: 
   Northern Great Plains Space Sciences and Technology Center
  $3 million
   This funding will support the continued development of a permanent base for the Upper Midwest Aerospace Consortium (UMAC), which makes data from NASA satellites available for everyday applications for farmers, ranchers, educators, students and land managers in the Northern Great Plains. UMAC is based at the University of North Dakota (UND). 
   Rural Methamphetamine Education Demonstration Project
  $1.75 million
   This funding will be used by Minot State University to continue its nationally recognized Rural Methamphetamine Education Demonstration Project, which is aimed to combat the growing methamphetamine crisis in rural America. The project will focus on methamphetamine education, prevention and treatment strategies. 
   Williston Radar
   The bill includes language requiring the National Weather Service to maintain its Williston Radar Station, which the Bush Administration has proposed to close. Dorgan has worked to maintain the station until an independent review can prove that its closure would not disrupt weather forecasts for the thousands of ranchers and others who depend on them. 
   Project Peacemaker
  $350,000
   This funding will be used to develop an innovative tribal justice program at Turtle Mountain Community College that will help meet the growing need for improvements to the tribal justice system and overcome the lack of American Indians trained in tribal government or law. The project will create a fully accredited Associate of Arts degree in Indian Justice systems, with credits transferable to four-year institutions. 
   Native Americans Into Law, University of North Dakota
  $350,000
   This funding will be used by the University of North Dakota for its Native Americans into Law program, which helps to recruit and retain American Indian students who are studying law. 
   Forensic DNA Analysis Laboratory
  $1.5 million
   This funding will be used by North Dakota State University (NDSU) to develop a Forensic DNA analysis laboratory that will provide DNA analysis for regional crime labs and research to improve current analytical procedures. The lab will also provide a training ground for a new PhD degree option at NDSU, so that more scientists will be available in the future for this cutting-edge science. 
   North Central Correctional and Rehab Center in Rugby
  $400,000
   This funding will be used to complete a new regional correction and rehab facility in Rugby that will help the state bolster its treatment programs for individuals addicted to drugs, especially methamphetamine. The center, which will replace a facility that is nearly 100 years old, will include 116 beds overall, with 40 beds specifically slated for treatment purposes. 
   Red River Children's Advocacy Center
  $250,000
   This funding will be used for salaries and operation and maintenance of the Red River Children's Advocacy Center in Fargo, which will provide counseling and other support services for victims of child abuse. 
   Grand Forks Public Safety Training Campus
  $250,000
   This funding will be used to provide equipment for the Grand Forks Public Safety Training Campus, a partnership of federal, state and local public safety organizations in the region. The equipment will include a Fire Arms Training Simulator (FATS) machine, which will train officers on proper decision-making during emergency situations, and a multi-function drill tower to accommodate chemical munitions training. 
   Rural Methamphetamine Enforcement Project
  $200,000
   This funding supports the continuation of North Dakota's nine highly successful, multi-jurisdictional drug task forces, which operate across the state. The North Dakota Bureau of Criminal Investigation will administer the funds to provide training, specialized expertise, and coordination of drug task force activities. These activities are supported by sheriff and police departments within each task force region.
 
 