DELEGATION PUSHES TO SECURE FUTURE OF HAPPY HOOLIGANS
  Sens. Kent Conrad and Byron Dorgan and Rep. Earl Pomeroy today met with Lieutenant General Danny James, the director of the Air National Guard, to discuss future aircraft and missions for the North Dakota Air National Guard's 119th Fighter Wing, better known as the "Happy Hooligans." 
   Based at Fargo's Hector Field, the 119th Fighter Wing is working to make the case that they deserve to make it through the next round of military base closings. The Defense Department will make recommendations to the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission by next May on which military bases around the country should be shuttered.
   "Time and again, the men and women of the 119th have proven to be the best Air Guard unit in the nation. They stand ready to defend our freedom and are invaluable to both North Dakota and the nation. That is the message that we delivered in today's meeting and it was a message that was heard loud and clear," the delegation said in a joint statement.
   At the meeting, General James briefed the delegation on his Vanguard Initiative, a plan laying out future roles and missions for the Air Guard nationwide. James' plan responds to the coming drastic reduction in fighter aircraft throughout the Air Force. The delegation pledged support for retaining a major role for the Air National Guard, and especially preserving a flying mission in every state.
   The meeting also gave the delegation the opportunity to stress the strength, accomplishments and military importance of the Happy Hooligans. They noted that Hector Field is one of the best-maintained Air National Guard facilities in the country. In addition, the delegation described the high quality of life in Fargo and the well-educated population that serves as a strong recruiting base for the Air Guard unit. The BRAC commission and the Pentagon look at many of these factors when determining the future of military installations.
   Today's meeting is the latest in a series of high level discussions initiated by the delegation to generate support for the Happy Hooligans. Last month, the delegation led a team of Fargo community leaders to the Pentagon to meet with key BRAC decision makers, including General Michael Moseley, the second highest-ranking officer in the Air Force.
   "Our citizens sleep better at night with the Hooligans patrolling our skies, protecting our nation. And we will continue to fight to keep them in the air," the delegation said in a joint statement.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Sanjay Talwani, 202/224-2551. 
 
 