SEN. DORGAN INTRODUCES BILL TO STRENGTHEN NATION'S BORDER SECURITY
  Sens. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) and Pete Domenici (R-NM) introduced legislation yesterday that would strengthen the nation's border security by asking the National Guard and a volunteer force of retired law enforcement officers to help monitor the northern and southern borders.  
   The legislation would also authorize the hiring of an additional 1,000 Customs and Border Protection inspection officers and Immigration and Customs Enforcement officers a year for the next five years. 
   "The Bush Administration recently acknowledged that our country does not have 'operational control' of our borders," Dorgan said. "Our nation will always welcome immigrants who have added so much to our country, but in a post-9/11 world, 'operational control' of our borders is not an option. We need to know who is coming into our country and why. We do not have that information when much of our nation's border is not monitored at all, and when even those points that are monitored are sorely understaffed and lack the resources they need to their jobs. We must do better." 
   In addition to authorizing the National Guard and a volunteer force of retired law enforcement officers who have professional training to help monitor the borders, and boosting the number of federal border control officers, the legislation would also require the federal government to reimburse state governments for the cost of detaining undocumented aliens while decisions are made regarding possible deportation. 
   In the past, most of the nation's border control resources have been devoted to the nation's southern and southwest borders, but Dorgan noted that the northern border is 4,000 miles long. Two of the 9/11 hijackers entered the United States through the northern border, he added. 
   "This legislation isn't about immigration control," Dorgan said. "It's about border security. We need to do a better job of securing our borders, and we need to do so on an urgent basis."
 
 