SEN. DORGAN ANNOUNCES NORTH DAKOTA ADDED TO NATIONAL SEX OFFENDER WEB SITE
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) announced Tuesday that North Dakota has been added to the federal sex offender registry, created after Dorgan introduced and won Senate approval of "Dru's Law."  
   Dorgan said the addition is "a very welcome step" in building a nationwide registry that will help the public keep their families safe by locating sex offenders in their neighborhood or around the nation. Earlier this year, he met with Attorney General Alberto Gonzalez to urge the Justice Department to support "Dru's Law" and develop a registry. The Web site, at www.nsopr.gov, now covers 33 states - including North Dakota and Minnesota - and allows users to search for offenders by name or in their city, county, state or zip code. 
   Dorgan first proposed the national database in legislation he called "Dru's Law," to honor the memory of Dru Sjodin, a young North Dakota woman who was abducted from the parking lot of a Grand Forks shopping mall in November 2003 and found six months later murdered. The man charged with her murder is a repeat, violent sex offender who was released from prison despite being judged at "high risk" for re-offending. He lived just across the state line in Minnesota, and would not have been identified on North Dakota's state sex offenders public registry. 
   "This site puts information into the hands of the citizens that they can use to protect their families," Dorgan said. "Still, it is absolutely critical that we do better in tracking convicted sex offenders. This Web site is a work in progress, but I hope that by the end of the year we will have a truly comprehensive national registry that is accessible to the public." 
   Establishing a publicly available, Internet-based national data base is central part of "Dru's Law," Dorgan said. The legislation contains two other key provisions Dorgan said he will continue to work to have enacted. The first requires that states attorneys be notified when a "high risk" offender is about to be turned loose so the state's attorney can consider whether to petition for continued confinement. The second requires states to seriously monitor any "high risk" offender who is released. The legislation may be considered Thursday by the Senate Judiciary Committee.
 
 