SEN. DORGAN ANNOUNCES ENERGY EXPO TO INCLUDE WORLD'S FASTEST STREET CAR, STATE'S FIRST PLUG-IN HYBRID
  U.S. Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND) announced Thursday the Great Plains Energy Expo will feature the world's fastest street car, the state's first plug-in hybrid, and other examples of cutting-edge energy technology put in action. The Expo will be held October 29 and 30 at the Bismarck Civic Center. 
   Dorgan, who is co-hosting the Energy Expo with Bismarck State College and Kadrmas, Lee & Jackson, said Basin Electric Power Cooperative will display a live conversion of a Ford Escape Hybrid vehicle into the state's first plug-in hybrid. Technicians will be on hand at the event to complete the conversion. Unlike standard hybrids, plug-in hybrids can be charged overnight through an electrical outlet, and then driven up to 30 miles without the use of gasoline.
   The North Dakota Ethanol Producers Association, North Dakota Corn Growers Association and Ethanol Promotion and Information Council will also attend the event with a Dodge Viper that recently broke the world speed record for street automobiles. Powered by E85 fuel, the 1,200-horsepower Viper went from 0 to 220.7 mph in 27.41 seconds. That broke the previous record of 217.85 mph, which was set by a gasoline-powered car.
   "We talk quite often about the promise of hybrids and biofuels, but these displays will offer a great opportunity for those who attend the Energy Expo to see this technology put to use," Dorgan said. "Each of these vehicles is breaking new ground in our effort to reduce America's dependence on foreign oil and lower greenhouse gas emissions. Their presence can only add value to the discussion we'll have about where we'd like to take our country and our state with respect to energy, and what we can do to make sure we get there."
   Senator Dorgan conceived of the Energy Expo to spark a discussion on how to grow North Dakota's energy industry. Keynote speakers at the event will include Samuel Bodman, U.S. Secretary of Energy, and other top energy experts from the private sector and the government.
   For more information or to register for the Energy Expo, call 1-800-852-5685 or go online to http://www.bismarckstate.edu/gpee.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 