SEN. DORGAN ANNOUNCES $2.2 MILLION GRANT TO DEVELOP HYDROGEN TECHNOLOGY AT ENERGY AND ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH CENTER
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) announced Wednesday the Energy and Environmental Research Center (EERC) has been awarded a $2.225 million grant to develop technologies to produce hydrogen fuel - research he said will help move the nation toward an energy-independent economy that relies on the ubiquitous gas to power cars and produce electricity. 
   Dorgan, who secured the funding in the Fiscal Year 2006 Energy and Water Appropriations bill, said the award marks an extension of the partnership between the EERC's National Center for Hydrogen Technology and the U.S. Department of Energy, further evidence that North Dakota is on the cutting edge of the development of hydrogen technology.
   Dorgan's announcement comes just days after he participated in a groundbreaking ceremony for the EERC's National Center for Hydrogen Technology. Dorgan helped create the National Center by inserting language in an appropriations bill directing the U.S. Department of Energy to designate the facility at the EERC.
   "The EERC has earned a reputation as a leader in the development of a hydrogen economy, and the new National Center for Hydrogen Technology ensures that reputation will only grow," Dorgan said. "This research will move us closer to a future where we fill our cars with hydrogen fuel, get twice the power to the wheel, and emit nothing but water vapor from our tail pipes. That's an exciting prospect, but it's even more exciting to think that North Dakota will be a leader in building that future."
   A long-time champion of hydrogen technology as a way to break America's dependence on foreign oil, Dorgan has aggressively sought funding for hydrogen research at the EERC and secured more than $5 million for the National Center. In the federal energy bill approved last year by Congress, Dorgan included legislation he authored directing $3.75 billion to hydrogen research, some of it in North Dakota, and set a national goal to put 100,000 hydrogen-fueled vehicles on the road by 2010 and 2.5 million by 2020.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 