SEN. DORGAN ANNOUNCES CONFERENCE COMMITTEE ON DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS BILL APPROVES $123 MILLION FOR NORTH DAKOTA PROJECTS
  After a rare Sunday meeting of the House-Senate conference committee negotiating the final version of the Defense Appropriations bill, Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) announced that the committee has approved more than $123 million for projects in North Dakota. Dorgan, a member of the conference committee, said the bill includes substantial funding for high-tech research and development efforts at universities and businesses in the state.  
   Dorgan said the projects will help strengthen the nation's military by developing new and improved procedures and technologies, such as research into microsensors at North Dakota State University (NDSU) and the development of a system to generate hydrogen for fuel cell vehicles at the University of North Dakota's (UND) Energy and Environmental Research Center (EERC). At the same time, it will bolster the state's growing role as a hub of high-tech research, he said. 
   "North Dakota's research institutions and companies have a number of exciting projects in the works that will help make our military even more effective and efficient," Dorgan said. "This bill is important for our nation's security, and Congress' decision to entrust this work to our state's businesses and universities says a lot about the reputation for solid work our state has built in the Red River Valley Research Corridor." 
   Dorgan also secured additional funds to maintain the full inventory of B-52 bombers at Minot Air Force Base. This year's bill directs the Air Force to maintain 18 attrition reserve B-52s at Minot. 
   Dorgan said he was particularly happy that he was able to secure funds for high-tech projects in rural communities around the state such as Killdeer, Belcourt and Fort Totten. 
   The Senate is expected to complete action on the bill this week. 
   Projects at North Dakota State University in Fargo: 
   * Durable Hybrid Coatings for Aircraft Systems
   $1 million
   This funding continues a project at NDSU to develop a multi-functional, durable coating system to protect aircraft against weathering and corrosion. 
   * Ultra-low Power Battlefield Sensor System
   $15 million
   This project is developing low-cost microsensors the U.S. Army could use for communication during wartime, improving the awareness of potential threats and the defense of high-value targets. The NDSU project has already created microsensors that are a fraction of the size and cost of existing systems. 
   * Chameleon Miniaturized Wireless System
   $6.3 million
   This NDSU project is developing a prototype covert surveillance system that would collect and transmit intelligence information from hidden sensors. The funds will complete the miniaturization of the Chameleon sensors, integrate the hardware and software elements, and allow demonstrations of the system. 
   * Advanced Fouling and Corrosion Control Coatings
   $5.6 million
   NDSU will further develop its Advanced Fouling and Corrosion Control Coatings technology--an environmentally friendly coating that protects ships against corrosion. The project has the potential to save the U.S. Navy hundreds of millions of dollars per year in maintenance and fuels costs by allowing the Navy to continue using foreign ports that are setting prohibitions against ships with conventional coatings that harm the environment. This project uses Symyx Technologies' revolutionary "discovery" technology that enables the school to analyze thousands of candidate coatings up to 10-100 times faster than is possible elsewhere. 
   * Corrosion Protection of Aluminum Alloys Used in Aircraft
   $1.4 million
   This project involves NDSU and the U.S. Air Force exploring ways to limit corrosion on its aging aircraft. The funding continues research into environmentally-friendly and longer-living anti-corrosion coatings. 
   * Advanced Coating Systems for Ground-based Military Vehicles
   $1.2 million
   This project is seeking a way to extend the service life of military vehicles by designing and testing new, environmentally-friendly coatings with improved performance and durability. The research will be a joint effort of the Polymers and Coating Department at NDSU and Turtle Mountain Manufacturing, a Native-American owned manufacturer of trailers. 
   Projects at the University of North Dakota in Grand Forks: 
   * Air Battle Captain
   $2 million
   The Helicopter Flight Training Program at UND will train a full-time compliment of 31 Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC) cadets and summer training for 40 West Point cadets. 
   * Center of Excellence for Defense UAV Education at UND
   $1 million
   This funding will be used to create a Center of Excellence at UND that will support the new Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) mission coming to Grand Forks Air Force Base. The school will work with the Department of Defense and the Air Force to create programs aimed at training, professional development and research in UAV-related fields. 
   * Engineered Surfaces for Weapons Systems' Life Extension
   $3.5 million
   UND will work with Alion Science and Technology, Inc. to develop advanced methods for manufacturing new and replacement parts for Army helicopters and other vehicles. The goal is to increase the service life of those parts by 100 to 300 percent. 
   * Battlefield Production of Hydrogen for Fuel Cell Vehicles
   $1.4 million
   This project at UND's Energy and Environmental Research Center (EERC) will develop a mobile system to generate high-pressure hydrogen to be produced and used in the field to power generators and fuel cell vehicles. It also will demonstrate the practicality of using such a system at a major cold-climate U.S. Air Force base. 
   Other North Dakota projects: 
   * Supply Chain Optimization Universal Tool Kit
   $1.4 million
   This funding will by used by Killdeer Mountain Manufacturing, in partnership with Boeing, to use radio frequency identification (RFID) and other cost-cutting technology and business practices to develop a "tool kit" to help small- and medium-sized companies become more competitive. The resulting "tool kit" will eventually be made available to small- and medium-sized businesses who are subcontractors on Department of Defense projects, saving taxpayer money on federal contracts and helping North Dakota businesses compete for those contracts. 
   * Parallelevax Rapid Vaccine Testing Technology
   $2.45 million
   This funding will be used by Fargo-based Aldevron LLC to continue development of its innovative vaccine testing technology for use by the Pentagon in preventing some of the world's most deadly diseases. The company will use its Parallelevax technology to develop new vaccines against targets of high priority to the Pentagon, such as Ebola, the Marburg virus and the Foot and Mouth virus. 
   * Advanced Power Management for Wireless Systems
   $1.4 million
   This funding will be used by Packet Digital, a small Fargo start-up company, to refine its "On-demand Power" technology, which could dramatically increase the life of any military system that is powered by batteries. The technology would allow soldiers to carry only one-half to one-fifth the amount of batteries they now require. 
   * CAV Technology Transition
   $2.8 million
   The mission of this project, to be performed by Sioux Manufacturing in Fort Totten, is to develop new, high quality armored parts and components for military vehicles, and to develop new manufacturing methods to ensure that those parts can be mass produced cheaply and efficiently.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 