DELEGATION SECURES FUNDING TO BOOST NORTH DAKOTA'S ECONOMY
  Congress gave final approval Wednesday to a comprehensive appropriations bill that includes funding secured by U.S. Senators Byron Dorgan and Kent Conrad and Congressman Earl Pomeroy that will give a boost to North Dakota's economy, improve the state's transportation network, and bolster its role in maintaining the nation's security. 
   The Omnibus Appropriations bill includes more than $228 million in federal funding to support a number of projects that are critical to North Dakota's economy.
   * The bill includes $65.9 million for improvements to Minot Air Force Base, Grand Forks Air Force Base and Camp Grafton that will support and expand North Dakota's military missions. 
   * The Garrison Diversion project, which brings a safe water supply to rural communities around North Dakota, will receive an historic investment of $67.9 million - more than three times the annual amount the project has received in the past. 
   * The bill will also help improve roads around the state and support high-tech research and education at North Dakota's public colleges and universities.
   The congressional delegation also secured an extension of a disaster relief program that lends a hand to family farmers and ranchers who have been hit by weather-related disasters. The $622 million provision will ensure producers who were hit anytime in 2007 are covered by the agriculture disaster package the delegation secured earlier this year. Previously, producers were eligible only if they were affected before February 28, 2007.
   "This bill represents a strong investment in North Dakota that will bring some relief to our farmers, support our troops, and give a boost to the Research Corridor," said Senator Dorgan, a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee. "We'll start to see action in literally every corner of our state thanks to this legislation. The projects range from the construction of new roads and water lines that form the foundation of a community's economy to exciting research that will raise the profile of our high-tech sector. But all of these projects will strengthen our economy and move our state forward." 
   "In my 20 years in the Senate I have never been more proud of the work that has been accomplished for North Dakota. This bill represents a year of hard work and a complete team effort that will benefit families all across our state," said Senator Conrad. "From the farmer in the field to the scientist in the laboratory to the Airman on the flightline, this bill is a big victory for all of North Dakota."
   "With this funding we are helping meet the unique needs of small towns and big cities alike across North Dakota," Congressman Pomeroy said. "This bill invests in the future of our state by funding our most critical priorities, including improving our military bases, providing disaster aid for farmers, investing in our transportation infrastructure and upgrading our state's water systems."
   The Omnibus Appropriations bill will now be sent to the President, who is expected to sign it.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551
 
 