PRESIDENT SIGNS ENERGY BILL SEN. DORGAN SHAPED FROM NEW SUBCOMMITTEE POST
  U.S. Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND) said President Bush signing the new energy bill Wednesday is a "major step forward in reducing America's dependence on foreign oil."  
   As the new Chairman of the Senate Energy Subcommittee this year, Dorgan played a major role in writing the bill, which passed the Senate with an 86-8 vote last week. The House approved it Tuesday and President Bush signed it Wednesday. 
   "The bill contains a 36 billion gallon renewable fuels standard by 2022, which I joined with Senator Jeff Bingaman (D-NM) in advancing earlier this year. That will be a huge boost to the ethanol and bio-diesel industries in North Dakota," Dorgan said. 
   The bill, for the first time in 32 year, requires better gas mileage for automobiles and trucks. It requires a 10 mile per gallon increase, to 35 miles per gallon by 2020. Dorgan took a leadership role earlier this year when he introduced the Secure America's Future Energy (SAFE) Act - two-thirds of which is included in the final energy legislation signed by the President - and by working as a senior member of the Senate Commerce Committee to write the first increase in CAF? standards in over thirty years, also included in the final bill. 
   He also played a lead role in writing provisions in the bill that deal with greater conservation, greater efficiency in residential and industrial appliances and lighting systems for buildings. 
   Dorgan helped write provisions in the legislation dealing with carbon capture and storage so that the nation can continue to use our domestic coal resources in the future without injuring the environment. 
   "This is a strong bill for America," Dorgan said. "It's a very important bill for North Dakota's economic future. It will mean real increases in economic activity and jobs as North Dakota increases its national energy role in producing a wide variety of fossil fuels and renewable energy for an energy-hungry country." 
   Dorgan predicted that while North Dakota ranks sixth in energy production today, it will substantially increase that production in the years ahead as a result of this energy bill.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 