SEN. DORGAN TELLS EDUCATION SECRETARY NOMINEE THAT NORTH DAKOTA STANDARDS FOR ELEMENTARY TEACHERS SHOULD BE ACCEPTED BY DEPARTMENT
  At a meeting in his office today, Sen. Byron Dorgan told Education Secretary nominee Margaret Spellings that North Dakota's standards for deeming its elementary school teachers "highly qualified" are perfectly fine, and that he hopes the Department's bureaucratic bungling of the "No Child Left Behind" law will change under her leadership.  
   Spellings, the President's nominee to succeed Roderick Paige as the next Secretary of Education, is expected to be confirmed by the Senate as early as Thursday. She came to the meeting with Dorgan at his request. 
   "I wanted to visit with her and spell out the problems I've seen at the Department of Education: The number one problem is a complete lack of common sense," Dorgan said, referring to the Department's surprise decision in December that North Dakota's standards for deeming elementary school teachers "highly qualified" under the federal "No Child Left Behind" law were insufficient. 
   Spellings told Dorgan she was previously unaware of the Department's decision, which would affect some 3,800-approximately 80 percent-of North Dakota elementary school teachers. She said she was familiar with concerns of middle and high school teachers meeting the "highly qualified" standard, but that she would look further into the Department's handling of elementary school teachers. 
   "It was a ridiculous decision," Dorgan said. "North Dakota requires teachers to have a bachelor's degree with a major in elementary education, a state license, and earn at least four credit hours every five years to maintain their licenses. When you're majoring in elementary education, you are required to take dozens of credits that are specifically focused on four subject areas. The Department of Education has botched the implementation of a law that started with a good intent-to help all children get a good education." 
   "Ms. Spellings seemed sympathetic to my concerns. I hope she can bring some common sense to a Department that has left 3,800 North Dakota teachers scrambling to get highly qualified, when by all reasonable accounts, they already are," Dorgan said.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Sanjay Talwani, 202/224-2551.
 
 