SENATE SUBCOMMITTEE APPROVES INCREASE IN FUNDING FOR AMTRAK, SEN. DORGAN ANNOUNCES
  Amtrak's long-range routes have been saved by a move by the Senate Transportation-Treasury Appropriations Subcommittee to increase funding for the rail service, Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) announced Tuesday. Dorgan, a member of the Subcommittee, has been a leader in the fight to restore support for Amtrak after the Bush Administration proposed to eliminate the funding altogether.  
   The funding is part of the Transportation, Treasury, Judiciary and HUD bill, which also includes more than $2 million that Dorgan secured for economic development initiatives in North Dakota. 
   The Subcommittee's action gives Amtrak $1.4 billion in fiscal year 2006, an increase over last year's $1.2 billion contribution. Dorgan said the development is good news for North Dakota, which would have lost Amtrak service under the Bush Administration's plan. Nearly 90,000 North Dakotans boarded Amtrak's Empire Builder trains last year at its stops in Fargo, Grand Forks, Devils Lake, Rugby, Minot, Stanley and Williston. 
   "Amtrak is an important component of our transportation network," Dorgan said. "It's important that we keep those trains rolling, and I'm glad I could play a part in ensuring that happens." 
   The bill also reverses the Bush Administration's effort to cut support for rural airports. The Subcommittee earmarked $110 million for the Essential Air Service Program (EAS), which subsidizes air service in Jamestown, Devils Lake, Dickinson and Williston. The Airport Improvement Program (AIP), which allots funding to all of the nation's airports, will get $3.5 billion. The Subcommittee recommended the airports at Devils Lake, Jamestown and Lisbon as high priorities for AIP funding. 
   Another $2.225 million is set aside for transit programs through the North Dakota Department of Transportation. The funding will help buy two buses and upgrade dispatch systems in Bismarck; replace a vehicle and renovate a bus garage in Grand Forks; purchase a trolley bus, a transit bus and a bus for the Fargo Senior Commission; purchase a transit vehicle in Minot; and replace buses and vans that serve the elderly and disabled in rural areas. 
   The Subcommittee also restored funding for the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas (HIDTA) Program, which the Bush Administration proposed to cut. The program coordinates drug control efforts among federal, state and local law enforcement. 
   The bill also includes more than $2 million that Dorgan secured for economic development initiatives for North Dakota. The state's economic development initiatives included in the bill are: 
   Advanced Technology Career Training Center at Fargo: $350,000 
   This funding will be used to continue advanced technology traineeships for graduate and undergraduate students at the North Dakota State University Research Technology Park. The focus is on nanotechnology, microelectronics and other high-tech areas. The program expands upon Dorgan's Red River Valley Research Corridor initiative. 
   Rural Economic Area Partnership (REAP) Zone at Rugby: $400,000 
   This funding will support projects in one of the state's two REAP Zones. The REAP program's goal is to spur economic activity and help families in rural areas experiencing population loss and economic upheaval. 
   Renovation of Dakota Boys and Girls Ranch Residential Treatment Facilities at Minot: $300,000 
   This funding will be used to replace and update furnaces, waterlines, alarm systems and other infrastructure at the Dakota Boys and Girls Ranch. The Boys and Girls Ranch provides co-education treatment programs for children who struggle with emotional, behavioral and academic challenges. 
   National Energy Technology Training and Education Facility at Bismarck:
  $300,000 
   This funding will be used to construct a facility that will expand classroom space for Bismarck State College's national energy technology training and education program. Enrollment in the program has grown by 240% since 1990. 
   Killdeer Area Community Center at Killdeer: $350,000 
   This funding, secured through a joint effort by Dorgan and Sen. Kent Conrad (D-ND), will be used to construct a community activity center in Killdeer that will meet the recreation, social and job training needs of the city and surrounding area. The center will complement the aggressive economic development initiatives in the region, which is trying to reverse its current outmigration trend. 
   Turtle Mountain Vocational Education Center at Belcourt:
  $200,000 
   This funding would be used to establish a vocational education center at Turtle Mountain Community College. The center will focus on education, training and retraining in building trades and other technical careers that are underrepresented in the region, and will provide additional classrooms for welding, automotive and other important technical programs. 
   Prairie Community Development Center at Minot: $200,000 
   This funding will be used for a program at the Minot Area Community Development Foundation to provide marketing and financing support that will help rural communities, businesses and organizations foster community growth and entrepreneurship.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 