SENATE COMMITTEE APPROVES SEN. DORGAN AMENDMENT TO STOP USDA'S FOOT-DRAGGING ON COUNTRY-OF-ORIGIN LABELING
  The Senate Appropriations Committee approved an amendment offered Thursday by U.S. Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND) aimed at forcing the U.S. Department of Agriculture to stop dragging its feet on the implementation of a country-of-origin labeling (COOL), a program that would require the origin of meat, fruit and vegetable products to be clearly labeled for consumers. 
   Dorgan's amendment will establish a series of benchmarks the USDA must meet as it prepares to implement COOL by Sept. 30, 2008. Dorgan said the benchmarks will force USDA officials to prove they are working to put COOL in place - and not continuing to delay full implementation, as they have in the past. 
   The COOL program was passed into law as part of the 2002 Farm Bill, but the Administration and Congress - at the behest of the meatpacking industry and other corporate interests - has repeatedly delayed the deadline for implementation.
   "We've had enough of the Administration's foot-dragging and delay to satisfy the interests of the meatpacking industry. American ranchers produce the safest, healthiest beef in the world, and consumers should be able to see where the food on their dinner plate comes from," Dorgan said. "It seems we are now faced with almost weekly revelations of tainted food products entering our country. Every month that goes by without COOL in place is another month in which American consumers are at risk."
   Dorgan added the provision to the Fiscal Year 2008 Agriculture Appropriations bill, in which he also secured $9.9 million to support agricultural research in the Red River Valley Research Corridor. The bill goes next to the full Senate for consideration. A list of North Dakota projects in the bill is below. 
   NDSU/Dickinson State University Wildlife Disease Surveillance
   $1.8 million
   This funding will be used to continue a joint Dickinson State University-North Dakota State University project to enhance the capability to quickly diagnose and respond to a potential disease outbreak in the U.S. agricultural food chain. Using disease diagnosis and rapid response initiatives, including the use of electronic animal identification technology, the project will bolster agrosecurity in the United States. As a result of past funds, North Dakota is certified to respond to cases of avian influenza, exotic Newcastle disease, foot and mouth disease, and classical swine fever (CSF).
   Renewable Energy and Products from North Dakota Biomass
   $1 million
   This funding will be used for a project at North Dakota State University to help identify perennial plant species grown in North Dakota for new biomass opportunities and develop strategies and policies aimed at growing biorenewable industries in the Northern Great Plains and enhancing U.S. agricultural competitiveness.
   Red River Valley Agricultural Research in Fargo
   $4.2 million
   This funding will be used to restore important research programs on cereal crops, small grains, and disease research to prevent scab, Canadian thistle, and Sclerotinia, also known as white mold. In addition, this funding will support a new food safety research project.
   Water Quality Research at UND's Energy and Environmental Research Center
   $500,000
   This funding will be used by the Energy and Environmental Research Center (EERC) at UND to research water quality in the region and provide technical assistance that community and business leaders can use to make sound, long-term water management and regulatory decisions to meet the growing water needs of the agricultural production and processing industries.
   Northern Great Plains Research Laboratory in Mandan
   $547,000
   The funding will be used for two research projects at the Northern Great Plains Research Laboratory in Mandan. One project makes satellite imagery available to agricultural producers and land managers in the region to determine best management practices for such things as crop rotation and eradicating invasive species. The other works with ranchers to develop feed management practices that use locally produced feed to prepare livestock for market.
   Cool Season Legume Research
   $250,000
   This funding will allow researchers from NDSU and a five-state region to continue their research to improve plant genetics and crop management, study root disease and new plant varieties, and develop new uses for peas, lentils and chickpeas.
   NDSU Rural Development Center
   $115,000
   This funding will allow the North Dakota Rural Development Center at NDSU to continue its work in rural communities to promote economic opportunities, foster community viability and advance the standard of living of residents in the area. The Center's research has been instrumental in developing and growing North Dakota's nature-based tourism industry.
   Agricultural Diversity and Red River Valley Research Corridor
   $500,000
   This funding will be used to continue a multi-state project that promotes rural development in the Northern Great Plains region. This year's objectives will include expanding production of organic products in the region through training and new market development, and growing renewable energy production by building a more effective and efficient energy delivery system with access to more lucrative markets. In addition, the project will support the Red River Valley Research Corridor Coordinating Office, which commercializes agriculture and research at North Dakota's colleges and universities.
   Grand Forks Human Nutrition Center
   $579,000
   This funding will restore cuts proposed by the President for ongoing human nutrition research. In addition, the Grand Forks Center, one of only six ARS centers focused on human nutrition, can benefit from new funds provided in the bill for a new obesity prevention initiative aimed at reducing obesity and the health risks and disease associated with obesity.
   Crop Damage Reduction
   $378,000
   This funding will be used by USDA to develop new techniques and refine current methods aimed at reducing the damage to sunflowers caused by blackbirds. Blackbird damage costs sunflower growers in North Dakota, South Dakota and Minnesota about $10 million annually.
   Rural Empowerment Zones
   $10 million
   This funding will support rural economic development activities in North Dakota's Griggs-Steele Empowerment Zone and other Round II Rural Empowerment Zones and Enterprise Communities across the country. The Griggs-Steele Empowerment Zone has focused its economic development strategies on advanced technologies, wind energy development and value-added agriculture. Since its designation, Griggs-Steele Empowerment Zone has retained or created more than 300 jobs and leveraged $32 million in private and public funds.
   Bison Purchase for Food Distribution on Reservations
   The bill includes language recommending that the USDA purchase bison meat from Native American producers and cooperative organizations for its Food Distribution Program on Indian Reservations. The program benefits low-income Native American families and elderly living on or near Indian reservations.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 