SEN. DORGAN CALLS ON NATIONAL PARKS DIRECTOR TO RESOLVE DISAGREEMENT OVER USE OF VOLUNTEERS TO THIN ELK HERDS
  U.S. Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND) called on the Director of the National Park Service Thursday to resolve an apparent disagreement between Park Service officials over whether the agency can use qualified volunteers to thin overpopulated elk herds. Dorgan said the Director should resolve the disagreement and make it clear that the Park Service has the authority to create a special program that would certify qualified hunters to thin an elk herd that is overpopulated. 
   In a letter to Park Service Director Mary Bomar, Dorgan pointed out that Park Service officials in Colorado have said the Park Service has authority to use qualified volunteers to thin an elk herd in Rocky Mountain National Park. However, Park Service officials in North Dakota have issued contradictory statements, saying that the use of volunteers to cull elk in Theodore Roosevelt National Park could be seen as circumvention of a federal prohibition against hunting in national parks.
   Dorgan said there is no reason for the Park Service to spend millions of taxpayer dollars to use professional sharpshooters and helicopters to thin the elk herd when qualified volunteers would do the job for free.
   Dorgan urged Bomar to clarify that the Park Service has regulatory authority to use qualified volunteer hunters to manage overpopulated elk herds, a position that is backed by a Congressional Research Service report he requested earlier this year. 
   "The National Park Service needs to resolve this in a manner consistent with its regulations, which do allow the use of volunteer hunters," Dorgan wrote in the letter to Bomar. "I'm concerned that if you do not straighten this out, the Theodore Roosevelt National Park will reach the wrong decision - saddling taxpayers with a huge bill to hire federal sharpshooters to cull the elk herd and ignoring the opportunity to use qualified North Dakota hunters free of charge."
   Dorgan requested the CRS report earlier this year after Park Service officials in North Dakota insisted they did not have authority to use qualified volunteer hunters. Dorgan also introduced legislation to clarify that volunteers could be used to thin the elk herd at Theodore Roosevelt National Park.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 