USDA OPENS CONSERVATION RESERVE PROGRAM LAND TO HAYING, DELEGATION ANNOUNCES
  Sens. Kent Conrad and Byron Dorgan and Rep. Earl Pomeroy today announced that the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) has agreed to their request to open Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) land to emergency haying in 11 North Dakota counties. Today's decision comes on the heels of delegation pressure on USDA to provide relief to North Dakota farmers and ranchers suffering from weather-related disasters.  
   Earlier this month, the delegation contacted U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Ann Veneman urging USDA to open CRP land in designated counties to haying and grazing. The USDA opened up CRP lands in several southwest North Dakota counties to emergency grazing on July 2. 
   Last week, the delegation also urged the North Dakota State Technical Committee, which makes conservation and agriculture related recommendations to USDA, to endorse the opening of CRP land to haying as well. The Committee made that recommendation to the USDA Thursday, and CRP land in Adams, Billings, Bowman, Dunn, Golden Valley, Grand, Hettinger, Mercer, Sioux, Slope and Stark Counties will be also opened up for haying effective July 18. 
   "North Dakota farmers and entire communities are enduring enormous economic hardship through no fault of their own," Dorgan said. "There are still many steps the USDA and Congress should take to help farmers, but this action is a good first step." 
   "The federal government has an obligation to help our farm families overcome these twin disasters of flood and drought," Senator Conrad said. "I am glad that the USDA is responding to our request and I hope this action will begin to bring some relief to North Dakota's farmers and ranchers." 
   "I am pleased that USDA has listened to ranchers on the ground in North Dakota and has agreed to open CRP land to haying," Pomeroy said. "Though this action will provide relief, there is still much more that USDA can do to assist our farmers and ranchers who are suffering from these disasters." In addition, the delegation has also asked Veneman to endorse federal disaster legislation that Senators Conrad and Dorgan have introduced in the Senate, and Congressman Pomeroy has offered in the House. Conrad, Dorgan and Pomeroy are also seeking the use of Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) funds to defray the cost of acquiring or transporting feed for livestock. So far, the USDA has not acted on these requests.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 