SEN. DORGAN SECURES $12.5 MILLION FOR AMERICAN INDIAN EDUCATION, HEALTH INITIATIVES IN NORTH DAKOTA
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) secured $12.5 million in a bill that earned initial approval Tuesday for projects in North Dakota that will help improve American Indian health and education, preserve historical landmarks, and bring safe, reliable drinking water to communities in the state.
   Dorgan secured $2.5 million for a project that will combat the high rate of suicide among youth on American Indian reservations by providing counseling, professionals and suicide-prevention materials to Indian communities. Another $2.5 million project will combat the production and abuse of methamphetamine in American Indian communities. 
   Dorgan also included funding for programs at the University of North Dakota (UND) to encourage more American Indians to enter the medical profession. One in five of the nation's American Indian doctors graduated from UND's Indians Into Medicine program.  
   The bill includes funding for improvements at Fort Lincoln and Fort Mandan historic sites, as well as an initiative to promote historic, cultural and scenic sites along the Missouri River. Dorgan also included funding to help improve the water supply system in a number of rural communities. 
   "By combating meth and youth suicide, supporting American Indian education, and helping to improve our historical sites and water supply, this bill will bring resources to address a number of critical issues for our state," Dorgan said. "Our American Indian communities in particular are dealing with heartbreaking rates of youth suicides and meth abuse. This bill will go a long way toward addressing those problems." 
   Dorgan, a member of the Senate Interior Appropriations Subcommittee, included the funding in the Fiscal Year 2008 Interior Appropriations bill. It now goes to the full Senate Appropriations Committee for consideration. A list of projects in the bill is below.
   American Indian Health and Education: 
   United Tribes Technical College 
   $4 million
   This funding will allow United Tribes Technical College (UTTC) in Bismarck to continue its unique mission of educating American Indian students from across the country. For the sixth year in a row, the Bush Administration has not included UTTC funding in its annual Bureau of Indian Affairs budget. This restoration of funding will allow the college to keep its doors open to its more than 500 college, 100 pre-school and 175 elementary school students. UTTC is the only intertribally controlled postsecondary vocational institution in the country.
   Indian Youth Suicide 
   $2.5 million
   This funding will help address the crisis of youth suicide in Indian Country by bringing more counseling, professionals and suicide-prevention materials to rural tribal communities, including the use of telecommunications technology to reach remote or isolated communities. The rate of suicide among teenagers on reservations in the Great Plains is 10 times the national average. Dorgan, Chairman of the Senate Indian Affairs Committee, held the first-ever Senate hearings on Indian teen suicide in 2005 in Bismarck and Washington, D.C. 
   Methamphetamine Abuse Prevention
   $2.5 million
   This funding will help fight methamphetamine production and use on rural American Indian reservations. Karrie Azure, who coordinates the United Tribes Multi-Tribal Indian Drug and Alcohol Initiative at United Tribes Technical College, testified at a hearing chaired by Senator Dorgan last year that approximately 90 percent of individuals entering treatment programs at Turtle Mountain Reservation in North Dakota are there because of methamphetamines.
   Indians Into Medicine
   $728,250
   This funding will be used by the University of North Dakota School of Medicine and Health Sciences to help address the shortage of American Indian health professionals by identifying, recruiting, retaining and graduating American Indian medical students. The successful program has graduated 168 medical doctors and 300 health and nursing professionals, of which 72 percent go on to serve American Indian patients and tribal communities.
   Indians into Psychology
   $246,322
   This funding will used to support the Indians into Psychology program at the University of North Dakota, which is aimed at recruiting more American Indian students into the clinical psychology profession.
   Recruitment and Retention of American Indians Into Nursing
   $363,000
   This funding will be used by the University of North Dakota to address the shortage of American Indian health professionals, as well as the national shortage of nurses, by recruiting American Indian nursing students. The program has graduated 115 baccalaureate nurses and 28 advanced practice nurses, the majority of whom are serving in American Indian communities today.
   Tribally Controlled Community Colleges
   $59.7 million
   This funding provides operating grants to 25 tribally controlled colleges across the nation, including Cankdeska Cikana Community College in Fort Totten, Fort Berthold Community College in New Town, Sitting Bull College in Fort Yates, and Turtle Mountain Community College in Belcourt. Sisseton-Wahpeton College in Sisseton, South Dakota, will also be eligible for the grants.
   Historical Preservation and Agriculture: 
   Fort Mandan
   $125,000
   Funding will be used for facility improvements and operation of Fort Mandan and the North Dakota Lewis and Clark Interpretive Center. The funding will help leverage greater private sector funding to ensure long-term sustainability.
   Fort Lincoln
   $125,000
   Funding will be used to expand the Fort Lincoln Visitors Center and redesign and improve the 7th Cavalry Wing displays. Fort Lincoln once served as an important infantry and cavalry post.
   Northern Plains Heritage Foundation
   $150,000
   This funding will be used by the Northern Plains Foundation to promote the historic, cultural and scenic sites along the Missouri River within the five counties of Burleigh, Morton, Mercer, McLean and Oliver.
   Dakota Prairie Grasslands Leafy Spurge Control
   $350,000
   This funding will be used by the U.S. Forest Service to control leafy spurge on the more than 1.2 million acres of publicly owned land in North Dakota and South Dakota known as the Dakota Prairie Grasslands.
   Water projects:
   City of Riverdale Water Treatment Plant Improvements
   $300,000
   This funding will be used to complete upgrades to the water treatment plant at Riverdale, North Dakota. The project will ensure the city has access to safe drinking water and connect users in the communities of Underwood and Pick City.
   Southeast Water Users District Regional Expansion
   $300,000
   This funding will be used to expand the regional rural water system in Ludden, North Dakota, to supply a number of small communities whose current drinking water supply does not meet new standards due to the presence of arsenic.
   Burke, Divide & Williams (BDW) Water System Association, Inc.
   $200,000
   The funding will be used to upgrade the water treatment plant in Crosby, North Dakota, and install additional distribution lines to serve the nearby communities of Noonan, Columbus, and Fortuna, whose current water supply has high levels of arsenic, sodium, and dissolved solids.
   City of Washburn Regional Water System Improvements
   $200,000
   This funding will be used to update the water treatment plant in Washburn, North Dakota, to meet new drinking water regulations. The project will also expand the system to include rural users of McLean-Sheridan Rural Water.
   City of Lakota Water Line and Waste Water Treatment Facility
   $200,000
   This funding will be used to relocate the city of Lakota's raw water line, which is submerged under the rising waters of Stump Lake, and to upgrade the city's water treatment plant to meet safe drinking water regulations.
   North Central Rural Water Consortium
   $100,000
   This funding will be used for infrastructure improvement that will allow Esmond, North Dakota, residents and others to connect to the North Central Rural Water System. Residents in this area currently rely on well water, which is high in arsenic, nitrates, sulfates, iron and manganese.
   Walsh Rural Water District Regional Water System Improvements
   $100,000
   This funding will be used to make improvements to the water treatment plant in Park River, North Dakota, and to expand the existing rural water system to serve more residents in Park River, Minto, and the surrounding area.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 