SEN. DORGAN: AIR FORCE REAFFIRMS COMMITMENT TO UNMANNED AERIAL VEHICLE MISSION AT GRAND FORKS AIR FORCE BASE
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) said Friday his office has been informed of a new Air Force plan for the transition from an air refueling tanker mission to an Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) mission at Grand Forks Air Force Base. Dorgan said the announcement is further evidence of the Air Force's solid commitment to the UAV mission at Grand Forks. 
   In a briefing at Grand Forks Air Force Base, the Air Force confirmed that a number of tankers will stay until the end of 2010 to facilitate a smooth transition to the UAV mission, Dorgan said. The Air Mobility Command is scheduled to turn control over to Air Combat Command at the end of 2010, Dorgan said.
   Fargo's Happy Hooligans will receive a ground control station, which will allow them to control UAVs over Iraq and Afghanistan, by the end of this year. The first Predator UAVs are due to arrive at the Grand Forks base in early 2009 and the first Global Hawk UAVs in 2010, Dorgan said.
   Dorgan said the Air Force plans to house at least eight Predator and up to eight Global Hawk UAVs at the Grand Forks base by 2013. Dorgan said he is confident that the Air Force will bring even more aircraft to the base, and hopeful that the base will regain a tanker mission in the future.
   "Today's announcement of a timeline for the arrival of the new UAV mission at the Grand Forks Air Force Base underscores the commitment given by the Air Force to the base and the community," Dorgan said. "I have been in close contact with the Air Force to ensure we have a smooth transition to a full fleet of UAVs. I am confident that our military bases at Grand Forks and Fargo will house important missions and make vital contributions to our national defense for decades to come. "
   While the Air Force said the base's infrastructure is "more than adequate" to accommodate the UAV mission, Dorgan said he would work with officials to ensure the base is able to upgrade communications, obtain a specialized radar system, and acquire special airspace needed for UAV operations.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 