HEARING SCHEDULED ON FUTURE OF NORTH DAKOTA'S BASES
  In response to a letter sent by North Dakota and Minnesota lawmakers, the Base Realignment and Closure Commission (BRAC) announced today they would hold a regional hearing in Grand Forks next month to discuss the future of North Dakota's air bases.  
   "This is welcome news," the North Dakota delegation said in a joint statement. "This will serve as an opportunity for the BRAC Commissioners to see firsthand the strong community support for North Dakota's bases. Commissioners will see for themselves the strong value our bases have to the state, the Air Force and the nation's overall strategy for homeland security and defense." 
   Earlier this week, Senators Kent Conrad and Byron Dorgan, and Congressman Earl Pomeroy of North Dakota were joined by Senators Mark Dayton and Norm Coleman, and Congressman Collin Peterson of Minnesota in sending a letter to BRAC Commission Chairman Anthony J. Principi. In the letter, the lawmakers requested a hearing in the Grand Forks/East Grand Forks area on the Pentagon's recommendations to realign the Grand Forks Air Force Base. 
   As a result of their letter, the BRAC Commission has scheduled a hearing on Thursday, June 23rd at 8:30 am to discuss the future of both Grand Forks Air Force Base and the Air National Guard base at Fargo's Hector Field. A location for the hearing has yet to be determined. 
   Last week, Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld recommended realigning Grand Forks Air Force Base and the 119th Fighter Wing in Fargo, known as the Happy Hooligans. A final recommendation by the BRAC Commission will be made to the President by Sept. 8. 
   North Dakota's military bases have been the recipients of major military construction funding secured by the efforts of the delegation. More than $200 million in construction projects, including new housing, runways and operations centers, have been launched over the last three years at the bases in Grand Forks, Minot and Fargo.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551. 
 
 