FEDERAL FUNDING FOR DORGAN'S RED RIVER VALLEY RESEARCH CORRIDOR TOPS $400 MILLION
  Against the backdrop of a Life Sciences Action Summit that attracted some of the nation's top researchers, U.S. Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND) announced Monday that the amount of federal funding he has directed to the Red River Valley Research Corridor has passed the $400 million mark.  
   He also released a report showing the Research Corridor initiative has made North Dakota's federal research sector the fastest-growing in the nation. Dorgan created the Research Corridor in 2002 as a way to harness North Dakota's institutions of higher education to grow a high-tech research industry and spark economic development in the region. 
   With federal funding that Dorgan has secured in this year's appropriations bills, he has now directed more than $400 million to high-tech research and education projects in the state. "I knew when I launched the Research Corridor that North Dakota had a number of world-class research institutions. Today, we have even more and they are even stronger," Dorgan said. "This funding has gone toward research that our country needs, and at the same time created a strong high-tech research sector that has attracted promising start-up companies like Aldevron and NovaDigm to our region." The effort has launched North Dakota into a national leadership position in high-tech research. 
   A Research Corridor report Dorgan released Monday showed, using newly released data from the National Science Foundation, that federally supported research has grown in North Dakota faster than any other state since the beginning of the Research Corridor initiative. On a per-capita basis, North Dakota has leap-frogged to No. 10 in the nation in federal research funding - far ahead of the No. 29 ranking it received before Dorgan created the Research Corridor. "This report verifies what we've all known for the last five years - we are growing a strong research industry that is attracting new companies and good-paying jobs to our state," Dorgan said. "I'm proud of the work we've done here, and I don't plan to stop. There's no reason we can't do some of our nation's most important research right here in North Dakota. We've shown that, and it's building a better future for our state and our children."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 