SEN. DORGAN CALLS FOR MODERN-DAY 'TRUMAN COMMITTEE' TO ROOT OUT WASTEFUL SPENDING IN IRAQ RECONSTRUCTION, HURRICANE RECOVERY EFFORTS
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) asked the Senate Wednesday to take a tip from Harry Truman and create a special Senate committee to root out wasteful and fraudulent spending during Iraq reconstruction and hurricane recovery.  
   The Senate Republican majority rejected the idea on a party-line vote. 
   Dorgan has chaired seven Senate Democratic Policy Committee hearings looking into wasteful reconstruction spending. The committee heard testimony about billions of dollars of wasteful spending in Iraq and contracting and management practices in the hurricane recovery efforts that "would curl your hair," he said. There is an "obvious and urgent need" for congressional oversight of executive branch spending in these areas, but the traditional congressional standing committees "aren't doing it," he said. 
   "I guess they don't want to embarrass anybody," Dorgan said. "The regular standing committees, controlled and chaired by Republicans, are apparently reluctant to uncover wasteful and fraudulent spending by a Republican administration. With their votes today, Republicans in the full Senate endorsed that view. 
   "I don't understand that kind of thinking at all," Dorgan said. "Neither did Harry Truman. This isn't about embarrassing somebody. It's about making sure tax dollars are spent wisely and that every penny Congress appropriates for the war effort and hurricane reconstruction goes to strengthen those efforts rather than winding up in the pocket of somebody looking to make a quick buck. 
   "When he was a U.S. Senator from Missouri, Harry Truman set up and chaired a special committee in the Senate to investigate wasteful spending in World War II. President Franklin Roosevelt, a member of Truman's own political party, welcomed that effort. This Congress and this President should do the same thing. 
   "The whole Senate, through a special investigative committee, ought to be working to ensure that tax dollars are spent wisely. There is no reason this oversight needs to be the work of just Senate Democrats."
 
 