SEN. DORGAN CONVENES FIRST SENATE HEARING ON BIG OIL COMPANY WINDFALL PROFITS, CALLS FOR CONSUMER RELIEF
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) on Monday convened the first Senate hearing on the billions of dollars in windfall profits the nation's biggest oil companies are now collecting, and called for action by Congress to provide consumer relief.  
   To illustrate the windfall profits the big oil companies are making, Dorgan unveiled a computerized gasoline pump-like calculator that tallied the windfall profits rung up by the big oil companies during the course of the hearing. As the conclusion of the 105 minute hearing, the oil companies had collected more than $16 million in windfall profits. 
   Dorgan invited the chief executive officers of three major oil companies - Shell, ExxonMobil and Conoco Phillips - to testify at the hearing, but their seats were empty when the hearing opened. Instead, the panel heard testimony on the effects of the high gas prices from Mary McCaffrey, a cranberry farmer whose transportation and operating costs have mounted; Pat Meadowcraft, an independent gas station owner who has lost business due to high prices; and Tricia Young-Williams, a mother who has been forced to limit travel and cut back other family expenses. 
   "While the American consumer is paying the highest prices in history for a gallon of gasoline, the major integrated oil companies are racking up record profits," Dorgan said. "City drivers, family farmers, Main Street business, and truckers--all of them are hurting while the major oil companies are raking in windfall or excess profits. When winter comes to the Northern Great Plains, the U.S. Department of Energy estimates that the price of natural gas will be up 70 percent over a year ago. That is going to be a tough burden for a lot of North Dakota families. That's why we need to take action." 
   Dorgan also questioned Dean Baker, of the Center for Economic and Policy Research; and Mark Cooper of the Consumer Federation of America. They testified that the profits flowing to major oil companies are not being used to develop new energy sources or operate more efficiently, but rather for purposes that do not further the public good. 
   Dorgan has introduced the Windfall Profits Rebate Act, which would tax the excess profits of major oil companies in order to provide rebates to consumers. The legislation includes an exemption for companies who use their profits to increase energy production or expand refining capacity. He also authored a provision in the federal energy bill calling for a Federal Trade Commission investigation of oil prices.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 