GREAT PLAINS TECHNOLOGY CONFERENCE OFFERS ONLINE ACCESS FOR STUDENTS
  U.S. Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND) announced Wednesday that high school and college students will have online access to the Great Plains Technology Conference held on October 8 and 9. Online access will be provided through a partnership with EduTech, North Dakota Department of Information Technology (ND-ITD) and North Dakota State University (NDSU). 
   "I am thrilled to be able to expand the reach of the technology conference to students who otherwise would not be able to participate," said Dorgan. "This is a great example of how technology is expanding educational opportunities in classrooms across our state. I look forward to participating in an online videoconference with students to discuss with them what possibilities technology holds for their future."
   Students will be able to join the technology conference by interactive videoconference, giving them the opportunity to participate in a discussion with Senator Dorgan on technology. Other interactive workshops will include a presentation by the Information Technology Council of North Dakota (ITCND) on workforce needs, Apple on podcasting and i-SAFE America on Internet safety.
   In addition, students will be able to watch keynote sessions from Fred Smith, President and CEO of FedEx; Jonathan S. Adelstein, member of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC); Tom Hunter, President and Laboratories Director at Sandia National Laboratory; and Kyle Warnick, executive from Microsoft who will be presenting Microsoft's new interactive technology called Surface.
   EduTech, ND-ITD and NDSU will host the videoconferences and streaming video presentations using a video conference system, which currently reaches 95% of the public schools across North Dakota state totaling over 400 high schools.
   Dorgan is presenting the technology conference along with the Chamber of Commerce of Fargo-Moorhead and the ITCND. He created the technology conference to spark a discussion on the ways that innovation and technology are impacting the Upper Great Plains region.
   Schools can register through EduTech at www.edutech.nodak.edu/greatplains/. The deadline is Friday, September 21. More information on the Great Plains Technology Conference can be found at www.gptechconference.com/.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 