SEN. DORGAN RENEWS PUSH TO SECURE PERMANENT DISASTER AID PROGRAM IN FARM BILL
  U.S. Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND) renewed his push Wednesday to secure a permanent disaster aid program in the next Farm Bill. Dorgan joined Tom Buis, President of the National Farmers Union (NFU), and NFU members from North Dakota on Capitol Hill to urge the Senate to include the disaster aid program as it considers the Farm Bill in the next few weeks. 
   "Even though we succeeded this year in securing a disaster aid package for the past few years, this came after seeing our efforts repeatedly blocked by the President," said Dorgan. "When natural disasters hit, our farmers and ranchers should not have to wait to learn each year if they are going to receive help. They deserve to have a permanent disaster aid program that they can rely on. I will continue to work to make sure a permanent agriculture disaster program becomes a part of the Farm Bill."
   Dorgan spoke at a press conference along with Senators Max Baucus (D-MT), Kent Conrad (D-ND), John Thune (R-SD), Ken Salazar (D-CO) and Jon Tester (D-MT) to urge inclusion of the permanent disaster aid program in the Farm Bill.
   The Senate is expected to begin consideration of the Farm Bill by October.
   Earlier this year, Senator Dorgan introduced a bill to re-establish a permanent disaster aid program that will help family farmers and ranchers through difficult times. Though a disaster aid program was for years a staple of the U.S. farm program, the last two Farm Bills did not include reliable disaster assistance - forcing producers to rely on ad hoc legislation when disaster strikes.
   Dorgan, a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, worked to include a $3.5 billion agriculture disaster package in the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations bill that passed Congress and was signed into law by President Bush last spring. The agriculture disaster package provided help to family farmers and ranchers who had been hit by weather-related disasters in the last two years.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 