SENATORS CALL FOR ACTION ON AGRICULTURE DISASTER LEGISLATION
  Leading a bipartisan group of farm-state lawmakers, Sens. Byron Dorgan and Kent Conrad today called on Senate leaders to pass emergency legislation before the Senate adjourns to assist agricultural producers hurt by Hurricane Katrina and other natural disasters this year.  
   "This has been a tough year for many of our farmers in North Dakota and across the nation," Senators Dorgan and Conrad said in a joint statement. "These producers need help and they need it now." 
   In the letter to Senate Republican Leader Bill Frist and Senate Democratic Leader Harry Reid, authored by Senator Conrad, more than 20 bipartisan Senators urge the Senate leaders not to adjourn for the year before considering emergency disaster assistance for our nation's farmers and ranchers. 
   "As the Senate concludes its agenda for the current session, we hope you will honor the commitment that agricultural disaster assistance will receive appropriate attention before we adjourn," Senators Dorgan and Conrad write. 
   Weather-related disaster losses have affected more than half of the counties in the United States. In addition to the extensive loss of crops and livestock in the Gulf, the nation's farmers and ranchers have also faced drought in the Midwest, flooding in the Plains region, crop infestations and livestock diseases. The spike in energy prices has hit agricultural producers especially hard. Higher fuel prices mean it costs more to produce fertilizers, run tractors and operate farm machinery. 
   Earlier this year, Senators Dorgan and Conrad introduced the Agriculture Disaster Assistance Act of 2005. The legislation would provide badly needed relief for agricultural producers who suffered losses due to the hurricanes and other smaller-scale disasters across the nation. The legislation includes several provisions to provide relief, including, a crop disaster program, an extension of the Livestock Assistance Program, and an additional $100 million in Emergency Conservation Program funds. 
   Twenty Senators joined in signing the Conrad-Dorgan letter, including Senators Max Baucus (D-MT), Norm Coleman (R-MN), Jim Talent (R-MO), Ben Nelson (D-NE), Ken Salazar (D-CO), Mary Landrieu (D-LA), Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), Ron Wyden (D-OR), Barack Obama (D-IL), Dick Durbin (D-IL), Jim Jeffords (I-VT), Mark Dayton (D-MN), Patty Murray (D-WA), Chris Dodd (D-CT), Carl Levin (D-MI), Tim Johnson (D-SD), Mark Pryor (D-AR), Bill Nelson (D-FL) and Pat Roberts (R-KS).
 
 