SEN. DORGAN ISSUES STATEMENT ON AP STORY ON ABRAMOFF INVESTIGATION
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) issued the following statement Thursday in response to an Associated Press story: 
   TEXT OF STATEMENT BY SENATOR BYRON DORGAN 
   "This is another story that uses innuendo and a thin tissue of disconnected facts in an attempt to connect me to the Abramoff scandal that Senator John McCain and I have been investigating. 
   "The fact is I have never met Abramoff and have never received a campaign contribution from him. If he was directing any of his clients to make a political contribution to me, it was done without my knowledge. 
   "I serve on two Senate committees that deal with Indian issues and I have for many years worked hard to help Indians deal with the crisis in education, health care and housing. I have also been proud to have received support from individual Indians and Indian tribes in my reelection campaign. 
   "The investigation that Senator John McCain and I are chairing has uncovered massive fraud committed against Indian tribes. And the targets of our investigation are now trying to discredit it. 
   "Both of us have been attacked in the press recently either by, or orchestrated by, those we are investigating. 
   "Today's news story once again cleverly arranges a set of facts to create a suspicion. 
   "The story reports that the Choctaw Indian tribe did a fundraiser for me in a skybox in 2001 that the reporter claims was owned by Abramoff. 
   "The facts are, two Democrats from the Greenberg Traurig firm arranged the fundraiser and told my campaign it was a skybox owned by the Choctaw Indians. And that is the way we reported it on the Federal Election Campaign report. The fundraiser was perfectly legal and the Choctaw tribe has contributed to my campaign dating back to 1997. 
   "The story also cites a sentence that I included in a manager's statement urging the Interior Department to make a decision on an application for tribal recognition by a Massachusetts tribe whose application had been pending for 29 years. That tribe made the request to my staff to include the language because I was the ranking Democrat on the subcommittee and they had secured support from Senators Kennedy and Kerry to ask that their application finally be considered. The letter from Senators Kennedy and Kerry to the Interior Department and the language that I added to the manager's statement does not ask for a specific result. It only asked that their application be considered after 29 years. The news story tried to connect that action to future campaign contributions I had received. That is absurd and false. 
   "All campaign contributions I received were publicly reported as required by law. Indians have a right to fully participate in our democracy - to vote, to contribute to campaigns, and to meet with members of the Congress. 
   "The investigation Senator McCain and I are conducting has been a relentless one, and we will not be diverted from it."
 
 