SEN. DORGAN SAYS INSPECTIONS OF RAIL LINES MUST COME MORE FREQUENTLY IN REGIONS LIKE NORTH DAKOTA
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) said Wednesday the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) needs to tighten a proposed rule on the inspection of joints in railroad tracks to ensure the safety of the nation's trains and prevent incidents such as the devastating 2002 derailment of a train carrying toxic chemicals near Minot, North Dakota.  
   The FRA drafted the rule as a result of legislation passed by Congress in the aftermath of the Minot derailment, which released a deadly cloud of anhydrous ammonia over much of the city. But in a letter to FRA Administrator Joseph Boardman, Dorgan - along with Senators Frank Lautenberg (D-NJ) and Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX) - wrote that the agency drafted the rule with a "one-size-fits-all approach" that ignores the fact that some lines are at a higher risk for flaws that lead to accidents. 
   The FRA's proposed rule would require joints in railroad tracks nationwide to be inspected every 190 days, or every 370 days for passenger rail lines. But in regions such as North Dakota, where tracks are subject to extreme weather conditions and temperature fluctuations, and trains often carry hazardous materials such as anhydrous ammonia, inspections should occur more frequently, Dorgan said. 
   "North Dakota's climate and economy are quite different than in other areas of the country, and as a result our needs are different when it comes to the safety of our railroads," Dorgan said. "A one-size-fits-all approach by the Federal Railroad Administration will be inadequate because our rail lines are exposed to extreme weather conditions and often carry dangerous materials. I hope the FRA reconsiders its policy and makes sure its inspections of rail lines come often enough to ensure public safety." 
   The FRA proposed the rule governing the inspection of railroad lines as a result of the Welded Rail and Tank Car Safety Improvement Act, which Dorgan and Hutchison sponsored after a train derailed near Minot in 2002, releasing a cloud of anhydrous ammonia that enveloped much of the town. The legislation was approved by Congress last year as part of the federal highway bill.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 