SEN. DORGAN, COMMERCE COMMITTEE HEAR TESTIMONY FROM NORTH DAKOTAN LYNETTE MUND ON IMPORTANCE OF SPORTS TO WOMEN IN RURAL AREAS
  A story of how athletics helped a young girl who grew up on a dairy farm in Milnor, North Dakota, earn a college scholarship and go on to help hundreds of other young female athletes was the one Lynette Mund told in her testimony before Sen. Byron Dorgan's Commerce Committee in Washington today.  
   Dorgan invited Mund, head coach of the West Fargo High School girls basketball team and a former North Dakota State University (NDSU) basketball star, to testify at the hearing, which was held in recognition of National Women and Girls in Sports Day. 
   The hearing focused on the many significant advancements of women in sports, and what more can be done to encourage women's athletics in this country. Mund, who was joined by other witnesses such as Olympic gymnast Dominique Dawes, focused her testimony on the importance of bringing women's sports to rural parts of the country. 
   "Twenty years ago, I was a 12-year-old girl who was milking cows on my parents' dairy farm in rural North Dakota, and now I am here in our nation's capitol with some of the most influential people in our country listening to what I have to say," Mund said in her testimony. "I have always loved sports, but I had no idea where they would take me and the confidence they would give me." 
   Dorgan said when the Commerce Committee informed him of the subject of the hearing and asked if he knew someone relevant to testify, Mund seemed like the perfect choice. 
   "Lynette Mund not only was a stand-out basketball player at NDSU, but she returned to her home state to coach the West Fargo team and instill in young girls the same love for the game and character traits that sports taught her," Dorgan said. "In rural states like North Dakota, communities rally around their sports teams. I wanted Lynnette to share her experience, which underscores the impact that our progress in promoting women's athletics has had all across this country." 
   Mund started as a guard on the 1993, 1994 and 1995 NCAA Division II National Championship basketball teams. During the 1995 season, NDSU went 32-0 and is still the only Division II team to finish a season undefeated. As a student at Milnor High School in 1990, Mund was named North Dakota Miss Basketball.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 