SEN. DORGAN ANNOUNCES FUNDING FOR MAJOR HYDROGEN FUEL CELL RESEARCH PROJECT
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND), the Ranking Member of the Senate Interior Appropriations Subcommittee, announced Thursday that the Subcommittee approved more than $7.25 million in advanced energy research projects at the Energy and Environmental Research Center (EERC) at the University of North Dakota (UND). The appropriation includes $3 million for a major new research project on the development of hydrogen fuel cells. In addition, in the bill to fund the Department of Defense, the full Senate has approved $1 million funding for an EERC project with the John Deere Corp. to help the U.S. Army expand its use of hydrogen fuel cell vehicles and power generators.  
   Dorgan's announcement came at his Research Corridor Action Summit meeting here, where leading bioscience experts discussed research opportunities in bioscience industries in North Dakota and ways to further expand Dorgan's Red River Valley Research Corridor initiative. Since he began serving on the Senate Appropriations Committee, Dorgan has steered more than $100 million in federal training and research contracts to North Dakota. 
   The EERC research has enormous potential, Dorgan said. "Oil, coal and other fossil fuels are always going to be part of our energy future, but we must develop new and alternative sources in order to end our dependence on foreign oil," Dorgan said. "With this new research project, EERC scientists will do some of the nation's most advanced work on hydrogen fuel cells, which can power America's automobiles in the years ahead. The work has enormous potential for North Dakota and the nation." 
   Dorgan said the project will be a "big step" toward establishing a major national hydrogen research center at EERC. "The EERC and UND have proven again and again that they can perform world-class high-technology research," Dorgan said. "This hydrogen project will be a great opportunity for EERC to make yet another big contribution, in one of the world's most important areas of energy technology." 
   The funding is part of about $16 million Dorgan secured for North Dakota projects in the Interior Appropriations Bill for Fiscal Year 2005.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 