SEN. DORGAN OPPOSES PASSPORTS FOR CROSSING U.S.?CANADA BORDER
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) met Wednesday in Grand Forks with state and local business and economic development officials and pledged to work legislatively to block a Homeland Security Department plan to require presentation of passports to cross the U.S.-Canadian border, if the Administration goes forward with it.  
   The new rules would be phased in over time, and would be fully in effect by December 31, 2007. 
   Dorgan met here with representatives of the North Dakota Chamber of Commerce, the Grand Forks Chamber of Commerce, the Grand Forks Convention and Visitors Bureau, and the Grand Forks Development Corporation, and others. He said he believes the proposal will do "very little" to increase border security, but has the potential to "seriously disrupt" travel and commerce between neighbors with a long history of friendship. 
   While the Department of Homeland Security plan allows for alternatives to passports to be used, Dorgan noted that none of those alternatives are available or used in North Dakota. "They are not really an answer," he said. 
   "There has to be a better way, and I intend to see that the Department of Homeland Security finds it," Dorgan said. He noted the Intelligence Reform Act, which requires stepped up border security, specifically requires the Department of Homeland Security to find ways to expedite travel by frequent travelers, including those who reside in border communities. "With that directive in place, I think it is pretty clear they need to go back to the drawing board." 
   Last month, the Departments of State and Homeland Security announced new rules that will require all travelers entering the United States from Canada, Mexico, Bermuda, and the Caribbean to show passports upon entry. Dorgan said he agrees strongly that security measures need to be strengthened, but added, that strengthening "needs to be done in a way that makes sense. Interrupting, in a major way, routine daily traffic between friends and neighbors is not the best option." 
   Dorgan said he hopes legislative action to block the plan can be avoided. "The President himself has expressed some skepticism about requiring passports to cross the U.S. - Canadian border, so I'm hopeful we can work together to find a sensible solution."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 