DELEGATION ANNOUNCES $25 MILLION FEDERAL LOAN GUARANTEE FOR RICHARDTON ETHANOL PLANT
  Sens. Byron Dorgan and Kent Conrad and Rep. Earl Pomeroy today announced that Red Trail Energy LLC has received a $25 million federal loan guarantee toward the development of a 50 million gallon-per-year ethanol plant in Richardton, North Dakota. 
   The plant would use 18 to 20 million bushels of corn and 133,000 tons of North Dakota lignite coal annually. Its total cost is projected at about $78 million. "I truly appreciate the work of the North Dakota delegation to help us get this financing," said Frank Kirschenheiter, Mayor of Richardton and Project Coordinator. "This plant is a very significant project for North Dakota, getting us on track with the rest of the nation in the production of ethanol. With Red Trail Energy, North Dakotans will be able to share the economic benefits of one of the newest and most profitable industries in the country."
   "This is a huge development for this major effort to harness two of North Dakota's greatest resources: corn and lignite," said Dorgan. "This project will bring good jobs to the area and will be a major step forward for the production of ethanol in our state and region."
   "Promoting the development of alternative energy sources, such as ethanol, is important because we can reduce our dependency on the Middle East for oil," said Conrad. "This plant in Richardton is another step in that direction and will benefit both North Dakota and our nation."
   "This loan guarantee will help jump-start this growing North Dakota industry," said Pomeroy. "A new ethanol plant in North Dakota will help increase our domestic energy independence and is a perfect example of value-added agriculture."
   The plant's investors continue to raise capital and hope to start the plant up in late 2005 with about 36 employees and a payroll of $1.5 million.
   The loan guarantee was awarded by the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Rural Development with funds appropriated by Congress.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Sanjay Talwani, 202/224-2551.
 
 