SEN. DORGAN ANNOUNCES $2.45 MILLION FOR ALDEVRON TO DEVELOP LEADING VACCINE TECHNOLOGY
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) and Aldevron President/CEO Michael Chambers announced Friday that Aldevron has been awarded $2.45 million through the Department of Defense to take another step forward in its work to develop leading vaccine technology. 
   Aldevron also plans to bring a new subsidiary biotech company, Genovac, to North Dakota later on this year to focus on advancing pharmaceutical research.
   Senator Dorgan connected Aldevron with the Department of Defense and provided the initial funding for the contract as a part of his work on the Senate Appropriations Committee. Now, that contract is being extended by the Department of Defense because they see Aldevron's work as a valuable part of their effort to develop vaccines for the protection of the troops.
   "Aldevron has built a reputation as a leader in the development of new technology and testing of vaccines, and this new funding represents the next step forward in that effort," Dorgan said. "The success Aldevron has achieved further demonstrates the expertise we're building in the Red River Valley Research Corridor, and this new funding and the arrival of Genovac will be a boost to our effort to bring more good-paying jobs and cutting-edge research to the state."
   "Thanks to Senator Dorgan, Aldevron is able to continue our work to develop vaccines and antibodies to a wide range of pathogens," Chambers said. "Combined with Senator Dorgan's foresight in creating the Red River Valley Research Corridor, this contract extension will also enable Aldevron to partner with other universities and companies in North Dakota to accelerate vaccine research."
   Aldevron has been delivering antibodies to the United States Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious Diseases (USAMRIID) that can be used to treat individuals against potential bioterrorism agents including the Hantavirus, Andes Virus and Smallpox.
   In March, Aldevron launched a new project to develop antibodies and vaccines against Avian influenza, and they plan to expand this project to look at creating a vaccine against seasonal influenza that does not require yearly injections.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt, Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 