SEN. DORGAN, MINOT STATE ANNOUNCE FIVE-COMMUNITY MENTOR INITIATIVE TO COMBAT METH ABUSE, PRODUCTION
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND), joined by officials from Minot State University (MSU) Thursday, announced a new methamphetamine prevention initiative to help communities deal with meth abuse and production in North Dakota.  
   Using a $750,000 earmark Dorgan included in FY2004 appropriations legislation, MSU's Rural Crime and Justice Center will launch its Mentors Communities program in five North Dakota communities. The communities are Minot, Watford City, Dickinson, Beulah-Hazen and Devils Lake. Minot State will work directly with these communities of varying sizes to develop strategies and a coordinated response to combat the meth problem. 
   "The statistics on meth use and production in North Dakota are alarming," said Dorgan, who was joined at the event by local law enforcement officials. "This is a deadly drug that is highly addictive and is posing real challenges to our communities. By working with law enforcement and city leaders on a community-by-community basis, we can begin to develop strategies very specific to each community's problems." 
   "This program is a real beacon of hope, and I applaud Minot State for tackling this very tough and important issue by developing innovative approaches and with aggressive outreach." 
   As part of his Research Corridor initiative, Dorgan has worked with the Rural Crime and Justice Center to build a Center of Excellence at Minot State University in law enforcement training and research. Overall, he has secured nearly $5 million for the Center for its studies and work to combat rural meth problems and for police officer training. 
   "When people need information or training on rural law enforcement issues they turn to Minot State University and the Rural Crime and Justice Center," Dorgan said. "The goal of my Research Corridor is to build upon the expertise and success of Minot State and other North Dakota institutions, to solve important problems and create new, good paying job opportunities for the region."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 