SEN. DORGAN URGES DEFENSE SECRETARY RUMSFELD TO CONSIDER NORTH DAKOTA BASES FOR TROOPS BROUGHT BACK FROM EUROPE
  In a letter to Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld, Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) today urged him to consider expanding the role of North Dakota's military bases to house units that President Bush plans to bring back from European bases.  
   In his letter, Dorgan urged Rumsfeld to strongly consider the "unparalleled" assets of the Minot and Grand Forks Air Bases when relocating the troops. The Senator stressed the lack of encroachment on the bases in these cities, as well as compliant air quality standards, excellent education and training facilities and a high quality of life. 
   The text of Dorgan's letter, which he released during a visit to Minot Friday, follows: 
   Dear Mr. Secretary: 
   The plans recently announced by President Bush to return to the United States as many as 70,000 uniformed personnel and 100,000 family members and civilian employees will be aggressively debated in the U.S. Congress in the weeks and months ahead. 
   I support the reductions of U.S. troops in parts of Europe. Especially in Germany, we can safely reduce our troop strength by transferring some of our soldiers back home to U.S. bases. 
   However, I do not believe it is wise to withdraw troops in Korea at the same time that North Korea is widely believed to be producing nuclear weapons and is testing the will of the rest of the world. I believe it would send the wrong signal to North Korea for us to be withdrawing American troops any time soon. 
   However, if and when the realignments that the President announced do occur, and if they include bringing Air Force personnel and missions back to the United States, I want to emphasize the importance of including the Minot and Grand Forks Air Bases among those that should host new missions. 
   In recent months there have been reports of problems at U.S. bases with encroachment of air space near major cities, as well as air quality problems at bases near large population centers. Any future realignments of overseas bases and personnel would be an opportunity to fully utilize the capacity that exists at air bases like those at Minot and Grand Forks in North Dakota. 
   North Dakota has an unparalleled lack of encroachment, fully meets air quality standards, has excellent flying weather, offers an excellent quality of life and a fine education system. In short, both of our air bases are major assets that can and should be expanded and used as host bases to receive new missions. 
   It is not clear to me how these announced realignment plans for U.S. troops in foreign countries will relate to the work of the Base Closure Commission that is set to consider U.S. base closings next year. 
   But, I hope you will take bold steps in your recommendations to the Base Closure Commission to preserve the opportunities to more fully utilize and add to the missions of those U.S. air bases that offer decades of opportunity for our military. At the top of that list for the Air Force would be the Minot and Grand Forks Air Bases for the reasons outlined above. 
   Sincerely, Byron L. Dorgan 
  United States Senator.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 