SEN. DORGAN SAYS CONGRESS IGNORES NEED OF NORTH DAKOTA FARMERS, OTHERS ACROSS NATION, HIT BY NATURAL DISASTER
  Sen. Byron Dorgan said Tuesday Congress is ignoring the need of hundreds of thousands of family farmers, who are outside the Gulf region hit by Hurricane Katrina, for disaster assistance. He said he'll continue to press for emergency farm assistance, but the majority in Congress "appears more interested in providing more tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans" than in doing "what's right" for America's family farmers.  
   Dorgan said he supported disaster aid for the farmers in the Gulf region who lost their crops as a result of the hurricane, but he pointed out that other farmers in the United States are also suffering disaster losses and they should be able to apply for disaster aid as well. 
   Dorgan pointed to the torrential rains in North Dakota last spring that prevented over 1 million acres from being planted. He also pointed to drought in the Midwest states of Illinois, Missouri, Iowa and other states where farmers have seen their crops devastated. Record high fuel prices compound the problem, Dorgan added. 
   The issue is coming to a head during consideration of the Defense Appropriations Conference, to which an emergency aid package was added for relief from Hurricane Katrina in the Gulf states. 
   Dorgan proposed an additional $1.6 billion in disaster aid for farmers outside the Gulf region who suffered disasters as well during conference committee consideration of the legislation this week end. Dorgan's amendment won a 10-4 vote among Senate conferees, but was rejected by House conferees, who pointed out the President would not support the additional funding for family farmers hit by disaster and who were outside the Katrina area. 
   "This action makes no sense, and I don't accept this as the final word on this issue," Dorgan said. "A natural disaster is a natural disaster and farmers have a right to expect that if the Congress is going to help some farmers who have suffered a weather-related disaster, it will extend the same kind of help to farmers hit by disasters in all parts of the U.S. who have lost their crops as a result of weather-related disaster." 
   Dorgan said that he intends to continue to fight for disaster aid for those farmers who lost their crops this year.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 