SEN. DORGAN AMENDMENT OK'D, WOULD REMOVE ADMINISTRATION ROADBLOCK TO AGRICULTURE SALES TO CUBA
  Sen. Byron Dorgan's (D-ND) drive to open the door to more sales of U.S. farm products advanced Thursday as he won approval from the Senate Appropriations Committee for language barring enforcement of a Bush Administration rule that seeks to impede such sales. 
   North Dakota farmers have a direct stake in the issue, having sold about $40 million in farm products to Cuba since sales were first permitted in 2001, despite numerous roadblocks put in place by the Bush Administration to such sales. Nationally, American farmers have sold $1.4 billion over that time. Both totals would undoubtedly be substantially higher if not for the administration's roadblocks, Dorgan said.
   Dorgan's amendment would bar enforcement of a Bush Administration requirement that Cuba pay cash in advance before shipment - not just before delivery, which is the international norm - for any U.S. farm product purchases.
   Dorgan said the rule is another "back door attempt to block U.S. food sales to Cuba, by delaying delivery of those sales and imposing a requirement that U.S. competitors do not have to meet in order to ship farm products to Cuba.
   U.S. farm product sales to Cuba fell 11%, or $42 million, in 2005 after the Bush Administration put the rule in place, compared to U.S. sales to Cuba in 2004 when the rule did not exist.
   "Castro doesn't miss a meal because of the Administration's rule, but American farmers lose sales right and left," Dorgan said.
   The full Senate must next act on the legislation. Language identical to Dorgan's amendment is already included in the House version of the Treasury Transportation bill. A House-Senate conference committee will work out differences between House and Senate versions of the bill.
   Traditionally, identical language in both the House and Senate versions of a bill would be retained. Republican congressional leaders, however, now often use conference committees to write entirely new bills, not just work out differences between House and Senate versions of legislation. On this issue, they have frequently removed provisions making it easier for U.S. farmers to sell ag products to Cuba, even when both the House and Senate bills contained identical language. "We'll have to stay alert and watch this closely," Dorgan said. "It's clear some would rather prolong the Cold War than advance the interest of American farmers."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 