DRU'S LAW PASSES SENATE, HOUSE PASSAGE IMMINENT, PRESIDENT EXPECTED TO SIGN IT
  "Dru's Law," the legislation Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) introduced and named to honor the memory of the late Dru Sjodin of Grand Forks, was approved by the U.S. Senate Thursday night, with House approval expected to come later in the evening. Once cleared by the House, the bill will go to the White House, where President Bush is expected to sign it into law, Dorgan said. 
   "This is an important step forward in the effort to provide better protection for our loved ones from violent sex offenders, and a tribute to the memory of a young University of North Dakota student whose brutal murder spurred a nation to take action to help prevent similar tragedies in the future," Dorgan said.
   The legislation was included in related legislation known as the "Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act," which standardizes the tracking and data reporting of sex offenders across states, which is important to the success of a public national website.
   "Dru's Law" would establish a nation-wide, publicly available and searchable data base on the whereabouts of known sex offenders. It also increases supervision and monitoring of convicted high risk sex offenders when they are released from prison.
   The legislation also substantially increases the penalties on sex offenders who fail to comply with registration and monitoring requirements.
   Major provisions of "Dru's Law" in the bill include the following:
   # Establishment of a national public website, searchable by a radius defined by the user, regardless of state lines. The website, named the "Dru Sjodin National Sex Offender Public Website" was the centerpiece of Dru's Law and is designed to provide information on nearby violent sex offenders, regardless of state lines. The man charged with Sjodin's murder would not have come up on a search of the North Dakota sex offenders registry, because he lived just across the Minnesota-North Dakota state line.
   # A requirement that States Attorneys be notified of the impending release of high-risk sex offenders so that they can consider seeking a civil commitment.
   # Establishment of a pilot program that would use electronic bracelets with Global Positioning System (GPS) technology to monitor released sex offenders 24 hours a day.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 