SEN. DORGAN INTRODUCES BILL TO INCREASE INTERNATIONAL TRAVEL TO U.S.
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND), along with Sens. Daniel Inouye (D-Hawaii) and Ted Stevens (R-Alaska), introduced Tuesday the Travel Promotion Act of 2007 to increase travel to the United States and rebuild our country's attraction as a destination in the international travel market.  
   "After 9/11, the number of overseas travelers to the U.S. decreased dramatically and has still not fully recovered," said Senator Dorgan. "The U.S. offers unique and diverse destinations for travelers, yet we have lacked a coordinated program to promote travel to our country. This bill will help increase the number of international travelers to the U.S. and improve their perceptions of the U.S." 
   "International travel is a multi-billion dollar industry," said Senator Dorgan. "We have to rebuild America's appeal in the international travel market, and this bill will add jobs and boost local economies throughout the country." 
   "Although the travel and tourism industry is a driving force for our nation's economy, our government has relegated travel and tourism to a second tier status," Senator Inouye said. 
   "In order to strengthen our competitiveness and recover lost international market share, we must improve and better explain the process for travelers coming to America. The world needs to know that the United States welcomes business and leisure travelers. The Travel Promotion Act of 2007 will enhance our competitiveness and improve our image abroad." 
   "The travel and tourism industry impacts every portion of Alaska's economy by providing jobs to our residents and increasing sales for our businesses," said Senator Stevens. "By encouraging international tourists to visit Alaska and the rest of the United States, the Travel Promotion Act will help a vital sector of our economy continue to grow." 
   The Travel Promotion Act of 2007 promotes travel to United States destinations, including areas not traditionally visited, highlighting the United States as a premier travel destination. The bill will also advance overseas travel by clearly communicating United States travel policies and improving perceptions of the process, which can often deter tourists from traveling to the United States. 
   The bill creates a nationally coordinated travel promotion campaign through a public-private partnership to increase international travel to the United States. It authorizes the Department of Commerce to establish the position of an Under Secretary of Travel Promotion and create an Office of Travel Promotion. The bill also creates a Corporation for Travel Promotion, an independent, nonprofit corporation, to run the travel promotion campaign. The program will be funded equally by a small fee paid by foreign travelers visiting the United States and matching contributions from the travel industry.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 