IN MAJOR VICTORY, HOUSE-SENATE ENERGY CONFERENCE COMMITTEE ADOPTS SEN. DORGAN'S PLAN TO DEVELOP HYDROGEN FUEL CELL ECONOMY
  A plan offered by Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) to begin an all-out push to develop a hydrogen fuel cell economy - a move that could revolutionize how Americans fuel their automobiles - was adopted by a House-Senate Energy Conference committee Tuesday, setting the stage for final congressional approval, perhaps yet this month.  
   The University of North Dakota's Energy and Environmental Research Center (EERC) is poised to play a major role in such an effort, after Dorgan won designation for EERC as a National Center for Hydrogen Technology. 
   The aggressive development project would authorize investment of $3.75 billion over the next five years for research, development and demonstration programs nationwide with private industry to develop hydrogen fuel cells, hydrogen powered automobiles, and a nation-wide fueling infrastructure. 
   The legislation sets specific timelines and goals for the effort: 100,000 hydrogen-fueled vehicles on the road in the United States by 2010, and 2.5 million of them by 2020, along with the required fueling infrastructure. 
   President George W. Bush endorsed the plan, in concept, in his 2003 State of the Union Address, shortly after Dorgan first proposed the plan. 
   Dorgan said the plan will take the nation toward much greater energy security, and spur development of whole new industries through an all out, Apollo-like program to develop hydrogen-powered fuel cell vehicles and the infrastructure to support them. The plan will help free the U.S. from what Dorgan described as the nation's "dangerous dependence" on imported oil by developing new cars that run on hydrogen - one of the Earth's most abundant elements - and emit only water. 
   The transportation sector currently consumes by far the most energy of all sectors of the U.S. economy, Dorgan said, and will continue to have the greatest growth in demand in future years. "Building a new energy future has to start with the transportation sector if we are to reduce our dependence on foreign oil in any serious way," Dorgan said.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 