SEN. DORGAN, COMMERCE SUBCOMMITTEE HEAR TESTIMONY FROM LEWIS & CLARK FORT MANDAN FOUNDATION PRESIDENT DAVE BORLAUG
  Dave Borlaug, President of the Lewis & Clark Fort Mandan Foundation, told a U.S. Senate Subcommittee Tuesday that the federal government needs to create a nationally coordinated travel initiative that promotes all of the United States and not just metropolitan areas to attract international visitors to the United States. Borlaug testified at a Commerce Subcommittee on Tourism, chaired by Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND), on promoting international travel to the United States.  
   "Since 9/11, the U.S. has seen a decline in its number of international travelers," said Dorgan. "The U.S. offers unique and diverse destinations for travelers, and we need to rebuild America's place in the travel market." 
   Dorgan plans to introduce legislation to reinvigorate American's tourism industry in North Dakota and across the country. He heard testimony from Department of State, Commerce and Homeland Security officials on the current visa and entry process for travel to the United States, and private sector representatives on their recommendations to create a nationally coordinated travel promotion initiative to increase international travel to the United States. 
   "With Lewis and Clark, Sakakawea, General Custer, Sitting Bull and Theodore Roosevelt among our cast of legendary historic figures, you can see the attraction we offer foreign visitors, who are fascinated by the American West - the Real America," said Borlaug. "When you make the decision to create a new centralized entity to promote international travel, please include in its charter that it promotes ALL of the United States, not just those metropolitan areas which appear to have the greatest appeal. We ALL have something to offer those visitors, each in our own unique way." 
   Borlaug reported that North Dakota is now among the top five destinations for all Norwegian air travel. North Dakota has been promoting the state's attractions to the international market for the past 15 years, he stated. 
   According to Discover America Partnership, a group of tourism business leaders, the complex visa process is one factor steering international travelers away from coming to the United States. 
   "We need to protect our country from potential terrorists coming to the U.S. without closing our doors to international travelers," said Dorgan. "More work needs to be done to facilitate tourism, while maintaining national security." 
   This hearing was second in a series of travel promotion hearings to examine how the United States can remain competitive internationally in the travel industry. As Chairman of the Interstate Commerce, Trade and Tourism Subcommittee, Dorgan will continue to examine possible solutions to incorporate in legislation he plans to offer to improve America's tourism industry.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 