JUSTICE DEPARTMENT TO IMPLEMENT SEN. DORGAN'S PROPOSAL FOR NATIONAL SEX OFFENDER DATABASE AVAILABLE OVER INTERNET
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) said Friday he has been informed the U.S. Justice Department is moving to implement his proposal to establish a national sex offender database available to the public over the Internet. "This is a major step forward for everyone who wants to protect loved ones from sex offenders," Dorgan said. "It is absolutely critical that we do better in tracking convicted sex offenders, and establishing a publicly available national database is a key part of that effort. I applaud the Attorney General's decision to take this action immediately. This is wonderful news."  
   Dorgan first proposed the national database in legislation he called "Dru's Law," to honor the memory of Dru Sjodin, a young North Dakota woman who was abducted from the parking lot of a Grand Forks shopping mall in November 2003 and found six months later murdered. The man charged with her murder is a repeat, violent sex offender who was released from prison despite being judged at "high risk" for re-offending. He lived just across the state line in Minnesota, and would not have been identified on North Dakota's state sex offenders public registry. 
   Establishing a publicly available, Internet-based national data base is central part of "Dru's Law," Dorgan said Friday. He began pushing for such a database in 2004, and won unanimous Senate approval for the legislation late last year. It stalled, however, in the U.S. House of Representatives in the crush of last minute business before adjournment. 
   "Dru's Law" contains two other key provisions Dorgan said he will continue to work to have enacted. The first requires that states attorneys be notified when a "high risk" offender is about to be turned loose so the state's attorney can consider whether to petition for continued confinement. The second requires states to seriously monitor any "high risk" offender who is released.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 