SENATE COMMITTEE APPROVES SEX OFFENDER BILL INCLUDING DRU'S LAW, SEN. DORGAN ANNOUNCES
  The Senate Judiciary Committee Thursday approved comprehensive sex offender legislation that includes "Dru's Law," authored by Sen. Byron Dorgan.  
   While the Justice Department has moved to implement one provision of "Dru's Law" - a nationwide sex offender registry - Dorgan has worked to enact its two other major provisions. 
   Named in memory of University of North Dakota student Dru Sjodin, who was abducted from the parking lot of a Grand Forks shopping mall in November 2003 and allegedly murdered by a sex offender who had recently been released from prison, Dorgan's legislation also requires significant monitoring of known violent sex offenders judged to be at high risk for re-offending when they are released from custody, and gives local prosecutors new tools to keep known violent sex offenders institutionalized even after completing a prison term if their mental state was determined to place them at high risk for committing another violent sex crime. 
   Dorgan called Thursday's development "an important step forward," saying the legislation, which the committee passed by unanimous consent, is likely to win approval soon in the full Senate and represents the best chance to get Dru's Law signed into law quickly. 
   "I've been working on a bipartisan basis to move comprehensive sex offender legislation, including Dru's Law, through Congress, and today's development is a significant breakthrough," Dorgan said. "The bill passed out of the Judiciary Committee today has good prospects for getting to the President's desk quickly, and is our best chance of getting Dru's Law signed into law in short order. It's critical that we do more to protect the public from repeat sex offenders." 
   Dorgan also noted that the comprehensive Senate bill also sets consistent rules on sex offender registration that all states will have to follow. "The uniform state sex offender registration standards will make implementation of the national registry under Dru's Law that much more effective," Dorgan said.
 
 