SEN. DORGAN CALLS ON CONGRESS TO PROVIDE CONSUMER RELIEF ON ENERGY PRICES
  Citing already record-high gasoline prices and new projections that home heating fuel prices will also reach record levels this winter, Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) called today for Congress to put his Windfall Profits Rebate legislation[1] on the fast track.  
   "Consumers need relief from high gasoline prices and record-high home heating fuel prices projected for this winter," said Dorgan, the bill's lead cosponsor. "Time is of the essence. There are only 10 days left in September. Winter is right around the corner. Congress needs to act, and act now." 
   The federal Energy Information Administration is projecting that natural gas prices in the Midwest are likely to jump 71 percent this winter over last, that Midwest propane prices are likely to increase by 40 percent, and home heating oil prices will likely jump 31 percent in the Northeast. 
   Dorgan, who is cosponsoring the legislation with Sen. Chris Dodd of Connecticut, said the bill would provide consumers with a rebate to help reduce the burden of high energy prices, funded through a 50 percent excise tax on windfall profits on the major integrated oil companies. Currently, the big oil companies are reaping $7 billion a month in windfall profits, an amount over and above the record profits they were making just a year ago. 
   The legislation would allow the big oil companies to avoid paying the tax entirely if they invest windfall profits in new domestic oil and gas exploration, building new refineries, or investing in alternative, renewable sources of energy. "If they use this money that is falling into their lap with virtually no additional expense to invest in things that will increase our domestic energy supplies, they can avoid the tax entirely," Dorgan said. "If they don't we need to reclaim some of that money and return it to the economy and to consumers." 
   Currently, Dorgan noted, big oil companies are simply pocketing the windfall profits, using them to buy back stock, purchase new corporate jets, and for other things that do nothing to increase domestic energy supplies. 
   "We have recently seen what happens when we wait despite seeing a disaster coming," Dorgan said. "We need to act now to avoid financial disaster for millions of consumers when high winter heating bills start piling up on top of record high gasoline prices." 
   Dorgan said he has formally requested that the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Senate Finance Committee schedule hearings on his bill "as soon as possible." 
   [1]For Windfall Profits Rebate legislation, see http://dorgan.senate.gov/newsroom/extras/windfallbillsummary.PDF
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 