SENATE APPROVES NEARLY $74 MILLION IN NORTH DAKOTA MILITARY CONSTRUCTION FUNDING
  Sens. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) and Kent Conrad (D-ND) announced Monday that the Senate approved nearly $74 million in military construction projects at Minot Air Force Base, Grand Forks Air Force Base and for the 119th Fighter Wing of the North Dakota Air National Guard in Fargo.  
   "These investments significantly strengthen the Grand Forks and Minot Air Bases as the Administration gets closer to beginning another round of military base closings," Dorgan said. "These projects demonstrate the confidence the military has in the air bases in North Dakota and the men and women who serve there. The decision by Congress underlines the important role the bases play in our national security. The improvements are much needed and the timing couldn't be better."
   "This package will mean new housing for our airmen and their families who live on base, improvements to the hangars that shelter our B-52 bombers, and new training facilities," Senator Conrad said. "This vote is real progress for our bases. Senator Dorgan and I make national security a top priority, and that means making our bases and our soldiers a top priority." 
   Funding in the Military Construction Appropriations Bill for Fiscal Year 2005, approved late Monday, includes $26.2 million for 90 family housing units on Grand Forks Air Force Base and $37 million for 142 family housing units at Minot Air Force Base. The bill also provides $9.9 million for alterations to a multi-purpose hangar for B-52s at Minot Air Force Base. That project includes a 64-foot addition to the front of existing hangars, allowing full enclosure of the aircraft. Currently, the planes are too long for the hangars, which complicates maintenance during winter. The base has 35 B-52s, but only two hangars that fully enclose the plane. 
   For the 119th Fighter Wing (Happy Hooligans) in Fargo, the bill provides $702,000 for planning and design of a new fire-and-rescue and deployment training facility to improve the base's emergency response capability. 
   The bill goes next to a joint House-Senate Conference Committee for approval, possibly as soon as this month.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt, 202/224-2551.
 
 