SEN. DORGAN SAYS HURRICANE KATRINA RELIEF PACKAGE SHOULD INCLUDE FUNDS FOR LOW-INCOME HEATING ASSISTANCE
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) joined 20 of his Senate colleagues, including Sen. Kent Conrad (D-ND), in sending a letter[1] today urging the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Appropriations Committee to include $1.276 billion in emergency Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) funds in its Hurricane Katrina relief spending package.  
   Dorgan said, "a recent report from the Energy Information Administration (EIA), natural gas prices in the Midwest alone are expected to increase 70 percent this winter. Large increases also are predicted for home heating oil, propane and electricity. Many of our citizens are going to be hit hard with these price increases, and we need to provide some help." 
   In the letter, which was sent to Appropriations Chairman Thad Cochran (R-MS) and Ranking Member Robert Byrd (D-WV), the Senators wrote, "The effects of Hurricane Katrina are being felt by Americans outside of the Gulf Region as gasoline, heating oil, and natural gas prices rise in the wake of this disaster. Indeed, there is an imminent emergency confronting millions of low-income Americans unable to afford the cost of rising energy prices. ...This funding is critical to avoid a looming, but preventable, crisis for millions of additional Americans caused by the soaring cost and diminishing affordability of home heating fuel as winter approaches." 
   Dorgan said he is especially concerned about the effect these price hikes will have on low-income Americans who rely on LIHEAP funds to heat their homes in the winter months. He points out that the additional $1.276 billion the Senators are requesting will allow the LIHEAP program to provide the same level of purchasing power as last year. 
   "It is absolutely critical that we provide at least enough money to maintain the level of heating assistance through LIHEAP that we provided last year," Dorgan said. "It's hard enough to make ends-meet right now, with the record-high oil prices affecting virtually every aspect of our lives. But heating one's home is not a luxury. It's a necessity. And I believe we have an obligation to provide an adequate level of assistance to those who need it during this emergency period." 
   [1]For letter, see http://dorgan.senate.gov/newsroom/extras/092005EmergencyLIHEAP.pdf
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 