DELEGATION WELCOMES HOME 1-188TH SOLDIERS
  In a ceremony today at the Grand Forks National Guard Reserve Center, Sens. Byron Dorgan and Kent Conrad and Rep. Earl Pomeroy joined the families and friends of the 1st Battalion, 188th Air Defense Artillery Regiment's JLENS unit in welcoming the soldiers home from Afghanistan. 
   The 1-188th North Dakota National Guard unit has served in Afghanistan for the past year. It was the first Guard unit to operate new surveillance technology, called Joint-Land Attack Elevated Netted Sensor or JLENS, to provide perimeter security for forces in military bases.
   Based in Bismarck and Grand Forks, the 39 soldiers of the unit left for Afghanistan in February 2006. Their mission focused on protecting American forces from insurgent attacks.
   "The JLENS unit was the eyes in the sky, keeping watch over their fellow soldiers. They performed their mission with great success and undoubtedly saved the lives of countless American soldiers." Senator Conrad said. "Their service only reinforces the North Dakota National Guard's key role in defending our nation."
   "We salute these soldiers for their heroic service to our country," said Senator Dorgan. "We are grateful for their enormous sacrifices they made to protect their fellow soldiers and our nation, and are glad to have them home."
   "The JLENS unit brought a unique knowledge and skill to their mission in Afghanistan, which helped protect their fellow soldiers," Congressman Pomeroy said. "These soldiers represent the best of North Dakota, and we are pleased to welcome them home."
   While today's ceremony marked the safe return of the soldiers from the 1-188's JLENS unit, the congressional delegation paid special tribute to four other soldiers from the 1-188th Air Defense Artillery Battalion who were killed during deployment as Security Forces in Afghanistan: Sgt. Travis Vanzoest from Larimore, Spc. Curtis Mehrer from Bismarck, Cpl. Nathan Goodiron from Mandaree, and Cpl. Christopher Kleinwachter from Wahpeton.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt, Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 