DELEGATION CUTS RIBBON OPENING VA HOSPITAL WING
  Military veterans and their families joined Sens. Byron Dorgan and Kent Conrad and Rep. Earl Pomeroy today to help cut the ribbon officially opening the newly constructed Three Main Medical/Surgical Unit at the Fargo Veterans Affairs Medical Center. The $12 million project was completed with federal funds secured by the congressional delegation. "I am delighted to see this important project completed for our veterans," Sen. Conrad said. "These brave men and women have given so much to North Dakota and our nation. They have made great sacrifices in defense of our freedom. We have a responsibility to care for them, and it is my hope that this new facility will further enhance their quality of life." 
   "We are proud of our veterans who served our country with honor and they deserve the best in health care," said Senator Dorgan. "This new wing will provide them with more health care services, and I am thrilled to see this expansion come to fruition."
   "North Dakota's veterans have sacrificed so much for our nation, and deserve the very best in health care when they return home," Congressman Pomeroy said. "With this expansion of the Fargo VA we are helping to fulfill the commitment we made to our veterans when they committed to defend our country."
   The Fargo VA center is a general medical, surgical and psychiatric facility with 59 acute-care beds and an attached 50-bed transitional care unit that provides extended care. The new addition includes a 30-bed specialty-care unit. The renovation is part of a larger project that has been expanding and remodeling the hospital, which has been caring for North Dakota veterans since 1929. North Dakota has about 60,000 veterans.
   Today's events at the Fargo VA followed an earlier ceremony in which Senators Conrad and Dorgan and Rep. Pomeroy helped open the new veterans' outpatient clinic in Jamestown, which was made possible with federal funding secured by the delegation. Clinics are also planned in Devils Lake and at Grand Forks Air Force Base. The new North Dakota clinics will dramatically reduce driving distances and wait times for veterans trying to access health care.
   Both the House and Senate versions of the federal budget for Fiscal Year 2008 increased funding for veterans programs. Senator Conrad is the Chairman of the Senate Budget Committee.
   "This Administration has not been paying enough attention to the needs of our veterans. We must do so much more. We will work to ensure that the funding is there to care for our wounded warriors. We have a responsibility and cannot fail them," the delegation said in a joint statement.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt, Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 