SEN. DORGAN SAYS HE'LL CONTINUE PUSH FOR DRUG IMPORTATION, DOUBTED OBJECTIVITY OF HHS STUDY FROM START
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) said Tuesday he'll continue to press forward in the new Congress for legislation to allow Americans access to lower-priced, Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved medicines from other countries, despite a report from a Department of Health and Human Service's task force released today.  
   "I never had much confidence that this study was going to be objective or its conclusions accurate," Dorgan said. 
   Dorgan said he will introduce legislation in the coming Congress to allow importation of lower-priced FDA-approved medicines. "Of course it can be done safely," Dorgan said. "Millions of Americans obtain prescription medicines from Canada and other countries every year and do so safely. The federal government itself is buying flu vaccine from abroad right now. The only thing endangered by allowing Americans access to lower priced FDA-approved medicines from abroad is the incredibly large profits of the drug companies who over-price their medicines in our market, just because they can." 
   Along with Senator Olympia Snowe (R-ME), Dorgan was the chief author of bi-partisan legislation that would have allowed lower priced drugs to be re-imported from Canada and 19 other industrialized countries, but the Senate Majority Leader blocked it from coming to a vote in the Senate. 
   Dorgan noted the administration's first choice to head the task force was Dr. Mark McClellan. As head of the FDA, McClellan "couldn't have been a stronger advocate for the big drug manufacturers and their huge profits if he'd been their paid lobbyist," Dorgan said. "The fact that he would be the administration's first choice to head this task force was very instructive." Eventually, congressional objections led the administration to choose someone else, but McClellan served as a member of the task force.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Sanjay Talwani, 202/224-2551. 
 
 