SEN. DORGAN CONCERNED ABOUT STUDY SHOWING NEW REIMBURSEMENT PLAN WOULD CLOSE PHARMACIES
  Sen. Byron Dorgan said Wednesday he is concerned about a study by the Dean of the School of Pharmacy at North Dakota State University (NDSU) showing that as many as 30 North Dakota Main Street drug stores could be closed under the reimbursement plan proposed by Blue Cross Blue Shield.  
   Dorgan convened a meeting between North Dakota pharmacists and Blue Cross Blue Shield representatives last month in response to complaints about the insurance company's proposed cuts in reimbursements to community pharmacists. He said it is important for small towns in North Dakota to have a pharmacist involved in the health care of our citizens. 
   "They're the ones who can give advice on how medicines interact, which combinations might be helpful and harmful," Dorgan said. "Especially because our state has an older population and many people take numerous prescription drugs, it is important in small towns that our citizens have access to the advice pharmacists can offer while dispensing that medicine." 
   Dorgan said it wouldn't be proper for him to try to negotiate a solution for the reimbursements made to local drug stores, but he's hopeful the issue is resolved without resulting in the closure of two to three dozen community pharmacies in North Dakota. 
   "I am encouraged that, following the meeting I held last month, Blue Cross Blue Shield announced a 30-day delay in starting their reimbursement policies," Dorgan said. "It sounds as though the negotiations between Blue Cross Blue Shield and community pharmacies have helped narrow their differences somewhat. I remain hopeful that a solution will be found that will be good for all parties - one that will ensure rural communities across North Dakota continue to have access to their local pharmacies." 
   Dorgan has worked for the last four years with NDSU and North Dakota State college of Science (NDSCS) on a "telepharmacy" program to restore pharmacy services to small towns that have lost them. As a result, 50 communities that previously had no drug store now have access to pharmaceutical services. NSDU and NDSCS have been training pharmacy technicians who work in those communities under the supervision of a licensed pharmacist. 
   "It would be a shame if, while we have been successful in restoring pharmacy services to 50 communities in North Dakota, we would now face the closure of Main Street pharmacies in as many as 30 communities, as predicted by Dr. Peterson's study," Dorgan said. "It's my hope that Blue Cross Blue Shield and the pharmacists in North Dakota will reach an agreement that will prevent that result."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 