SEN. DORGAN PRESSES USDA OFFICIALS TO HALT EFFORT TO EXPAND IMPORTS OF CANADIAN BEEF
  Sen. Byron Dorgan pressed the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) at a U.S. Senate hearing Wednesday on the agency's effort to expand imports of Canadian beef, saying he opposes the plan because it is not based on sound science and would jeopardize progress made in securing new markets for American beef.  
   Dorgan, chairman of the Senate Subcommittee on Interstate Commerce, Trade and Tourism, grilled the USDA at the official field hearing about their efforts to open the U.S. market to more Canadian beef despite that country's confirmation in early February that it had discovered a 10th Canadian cow with mad cow disease, or BSE. 
   "Recent reports show that Canadian cattle are crossing the border without required health certificates and identification," said Dorgan. "USDA does not need to be expanding importation of Canadian beef, when it can't even enforce the current regulations." 
   Dorgan also invited testimony from the public and North Dakota ranching groups, who pointed out that bringing potentially contaminated cattle into the United States could damage consumer confidence and give fodder to countries looking for a reason to close their own borders to beef from American producers. After a Canadian cow with BSE was discovered in December 2003 in Washington state, U.S. ranchers lost 90 percent of their export market, including its top export market of Japan. The nation's annual beef exports fell from 1.1 million to 209,000 metric tons. 
   "I'm concerned that the USDA appears to be moving forward so quickly with their plan to expand Canadian beef imports, especially in light of the most recent discovery of a Canadian cow infected with BSE," Dorgan said. "I feel bad that the Canadians are having problems, but the fact is we need to take care of our own ranching industry first. The USDA seems to want to run a cattle drive right across the border, but I'm going to keep pushing to make sure this decision is based on sound science, not politics." 
   The U.S. beef industry adds nearly $100 billion per year to the national economy and $600 million per year to North Dakota's economy. North Dakota has more than 1.7 million head of cattle on 11,700 farms and ranches.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 