SEN. DORGAN SAYS NEW FIGURES SHOW NORTH DAKOTANS WOULD BE ESPECIALLY HARD HIT BY BUSH SOCIAL SECURITY PLAN
  North Dakota has a high stake in the coming debate on Social Security, Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) said at a Monday press conference, where he announced new figures on how North Dakotans' benefits would be cut under the President's plan to privatize the program.  
   With 22 percent of North Dakota adults receiving Social Security benefits, Dorgan said many North Dakotans would suffer under the Administration's plan to divert a portion of a worker's wages into private accounts. Seniors, the disabled, widows, and younger workers all are at risk under the President's plan, Dorgan said, and the statistics are "clear as day." 
   "Social Security has been the most effective program in reducing poverty in our nation's history, and for a state with the fifth-oldest population that means a lot," he said. Dorgan pointed to new figures just released by the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities that show without Social Security, 56 percent of North Dakota seniors would be in poverty. That's a "significant difference," he said, compared to the 10 percent who are living in poverty even with Social Security. 
   "There is no crisis in Social Security. It can pay full benefits until 2052, and even then it will be able to pay up to 78 percent of its benefits if we do nothing to it," he said. "What would constitute a crisis is if we took apart the basic Social Security benefit that has saved tens of millions of seniors from poverty-stricken old age." 
   The Senator said there is a little-known provision in the President's plan that amounts to a privatization tax, which would effectively nullify much of the revenue earned in a private account. Americans who choose to divest part of their wages in private accounts would be subject to an automatic benefit reduction when they start drawing Social Security. Because that reduction would equal the 3 percent predicted earnings, Dorgan said Americans would pay a 100 percent privatization tax-gaining nothing. 
   Dorgan cited other statistics on predicted benefit cuts under the President's proposal that are specific to North Dakotans: 
   * North Dakota widows who now receive an average of $811 a month in Social Security would get only $446 per month under the President's plan, even with proceeds from the private accounts (National Women's Law Center). 
   * A typical North Dakota 20-year-old that starts paying Social Security in 2005 can expect to see a cut of $152,000 over the course of an average 21-year retirement (Center for Economic and Policy Research).
   To view a fact sheet on how North Dakotans would be affected by privatizing Social Security, go to 
  http://dorgan.senate.gov/newsroom/record.cfm?id=232382.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Sanjay Talwani, 202/224-2551.
 
 