SEN. DORGAN ANNOUNCES $4.5 MILLION RESEARCH COLLABORATION BETWEEN NORTH DAKOTA STATE UNIVERSITY, MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, HP, FEDERAL INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY
  A federal government office that conducts cutting-edge research for the intelligence community, has chosen North Dakota State University (NDSU), Massachusetts Institute of Technology and HP (formerly Hewlett-Packard) to collaborate on a new $4.5 million, four-year research project on nanoscale computer technology, Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) announced today.  
   Dorgan said NDSU's involvement is a result of his belief that the research being done at NDSU's Center for Nanoscale Science and Engineering could be helpful to the intelligence community. In mid- January, he arranged for an official from the federal Advance Research and Development Activity (ARDA) office and Neil Gershenfeld, the head of MIT's Center for Bits and Atoms, to visit Fargo and meet NDSU researchers and tour its nanoscience facilities. The ARDA recently announced it would include NDSU in the project, which will be worth up to $4.5 million between 2006 and 2009. Approximately $1.2 million of that will go to NDSU. The Pentagon's Defense Microelectronics Activity unit will coordinate and integrate program requirements and manage program funds. 
   One of the project's goals is to create a "wallpaper computing display." The team will develop the technologies needed to embed all chips, diodes and other components that now go inside computer boxes into a type of computing raw material that could be painted, poured, sprayed, and unrolled onto flat and flexible surfaces in exactly the amount and form that is needed. For example, the technology could allow a person to "paint" a huge computer and high-resolution display on a wall using just a can of paint-like material riddled with tiny computer chips and light-emitting diodes. 
   "This project could change our fundamental notion about what a computer is," Dorgan said. "It shows there is no limit to where nanoscale science can take us and that NDSU and the Red River Valley Research Corridor are among the world's leaders in this area." NDSU Vice President Phil Boudjouk said, "This program results directly from the research infrastructure developed by NDSU, with the help of Senator Dorgan, to meet national needs in defense and homeland security. Our strength lies in the ability to execute projects at the interface of academia, the private sector and the federal government." 
   The project is expected to get underway this spring, said Dorgan, who has directed approximately $70 million to the NDSU Center for Nanoscale Science and Engineering in the last five years. Overall, he has secured more than $300 million for the Red River Valley Research Corridor since he created it in 2002 as a way to attract new companies and high-paying jobs to the state by directing federal funds to the world-class research going on at North Dakota's universities.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 