SEN. DORGAN CALLS ON ADMINISTRATION TO SCRAP PLANS TO REQUIRE BIRTH CERTIFICATES AT U.S.-CANADA BORDER
  U.S. Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND) called on the Bush Administration Monday to suspend its new rules requiring American and Canadian citizens, beginning January 31, to present a birth certificate, passport or other proof of citizenship when crossing the U.S.-Canada border. 
   Dorgan helped pass legislation last month that prohibits the Administration from requiring passports at the Canadian border until June 2009 at the earliest. Now, the Administration has said that it will instead require proof of citizenship, such as a birth certificate, from U.S. citizens crossing the border by land beginning January 31, 2008.
   Dorgan said the new rule, which was instated without a sufficient campaign to educate the public, will have an especially significant effect on communities in North Dakota, many of whom depend on cross-border traffic to support their economy. About 3,300 vehicles enter the United States every day through the port of entry at Pembina, North Dakota.
   "I strongly support efforts to strengthen security at the border, but this plan is being done in a way that can only create more hassle for travelers and do nothing for security," Dorgan said. "Congress delayed the deadline for the passport requirement so they could have the time to get it right, not so they could throw up arbitrary barriers to cross-border travel."
   Dorgan said the new requirement was thrown into place in a confusing way that is bound to create long lines at U.S. ports of entry. In addition, since Customs and Border Protection agents already have the authority to require travelers to show proof of citizenship if necessary, the requirement does not result in any real security benefit, Dorgan said. The Administration has not yet laid out how it will verify the authenticity of birth certificates, which come in nearly 8,000 varieties depending on which state, province or locality issued them.
   Dorgan said he'll continue to push the Administration to lower the cost of "passport cards," which will eventually be available to use in place of a passport. Dorgan persuaded the Administration to offer the cards to U.S. citizens as a low-cost alternative, but said the $45 cost is still too high. The Administration will not begin accepting applications for the cards until February.
   Dorgan said his goal is to limit the cost of the passport card to no more than $20 to ensure it is affordable for families.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 