SEN. DORGAN SECURES FUNDING TO ALLOW FUTURE DEVELOPMENT AT NORTHERN PLAINS COMMERCE CENTER
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) announced Friday he has secured $1.5 million that will help move the radar at Bismarck Municipal Airport and pave the way for continued development at the Northern Plains Commerce Center. The funding was included in a package of appropriations bills approved by the Senate Appropriations Committee that also included significant investment in other projects around the state, including funding for Bismarck State College's world-class energy technology training program. 
   Dorgan, a member of the Committee, said the movement of the radar is necessary to further develop the Northern Plains Commerce Center. The city planned the NPCC development around the FAA's announcement to move and upgrade the Bismarck airport's current radar. Because the FAA's upgrade plans have been delayed by several years, the current radar site impedes on pending and future development at NPCC.
   The relocation will also make more efficient the possible upgrade to an ASR-11 radar system for the airport.
   "The FAA made a commitment to upgrade the radar systems at Bismarck Municipal Airport, and I will continue to push them to follow through," Dorgan said. "Until then, I'm glad I was able to secure this funding to make sure we can move the current radar system and allow the Northern Plains Commerce Center to move forward."
   Dorgan secured more than $100 million for projects in North Dakota in the group of bills that were approved by the Committee - the Labor-HHS Appropriations bill, the Treasury-Transportation-HUD Appropriations bill, and the Defense Appropriations bill. The bills go next to the full Senate.
   Other projects in the bills for Bismarck and the surrounding region are listed below.
   BSC National Energy Technology Training and Educational Facility
  $800,000
   Funding will help construct a National Energy Technology Training and Education facility to house the training and education of a variety of necessary field-related skills and courses.
   North Dakota Statewide Transit
  $2 million
   Funding is dedicated to sites in Bismarck, Grand Forks, Fargo, Minot, and other rural areas, and will provide for the replacement and purchase of various transit vehicles, buses, dispatch equipment, and handicap accessible transport.
   Fort Berthold Indian Reservation - Wells Road
  $1 million
   Funding will provide for the improved safety of a four-mile stretch of Bureau of Indian Affairs Route 27 on the Fort Berthold Indian Reservation by providing for drainage, grading, and aggregate surfacing work.
   Sitting Bull College Student Support Center
  $250,000
   Funding will help construct a student support center designed to house a cafeteria, bookstore, faculty offices, classrooms, and computer labs for students from resource-poor families and communities in pursuit of education and employment.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 