SEN. DORGAN SECURES FUNDING FOR AGRICULTURE RESEARCH, RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS IN NORTH DAKOTA
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND), a member of the Senate Agriculture Appropriations Subcommittee, announced Tuesday that the Subcommittee approved more than $20 million in funding to support agriculture research and rural economic development and health programs in North Dakota.  
   Major items in the bill include $4.67 million for the Agriculture Research Service (ARS) in Fargo. The funds include an increase over last year for the National Sclerotina Initiative administered by the Fargo ARS, as well as support for studies into methods to improve wheat, barley and oat production in the Great Plains. In Grand Forks, $915,000 will go to the Great Plains Rural Health Initiative, in part to fund a new program targeting obesity. The Subcommittee also set aside $1.5 million for a program at North Dakota State University to address potential risks to the U.S. food supply from factors such as disease and agro-terrorism. 
   "The funding this bill provides will help improve life for those in rural America," Dorgan said. "Our farmers and ranchers face a number of weather and economic challenges every year. They contribute to this nation's well-being in countless ways, and making sure they get adequate funding is good for all of us." 
   The bill goes next to the full Senate Appropriations Committee for approval. 
   Specific projects include: 
   * Fargo Agriculture Research Service (ARS)
  $4.67 million
   To improve wheat, barley and oat production in the Great Plains region. Funding is also restored for a research position on Canada Thistle and enhanced for the National Sclerotinia Initiative. 
   * Griggs-Steele Empowerment Zone
  $1.5 million
   To continue implementing its strategic economic development plan. 
   * Bison Purchase
  $4 million
   To purchase bison meat from Native American producers and cooperative organizations, such as the North American Bison Cooperative in New Rockford. The meat is used by food distribution programs that supply food to low- and moderate-income people on American Indian reservations. 
   * Agriculture Diversification Project - Northern Great Plains, Inc.
  $622,000
   To conduct applied research aimed at finding alternatives to the crops grown currently in North Dakota, Minnesota and South Dakota, as well as ways to grow and process them. This funding also supports the Red River Valley Research Corridor Coordinating Office. 
   * Mandan ARS and Upper Midwest Aerospace Consortium (UMAC)
  $552,571
   To develop the livestock feeding industry in an effort to add value to crops and animals through the Southwest Feeders Program at the Hettinger Research Extension Center, and to continue using satellite technology to help producers in the Upper Midwest make better decisions on the use of their land. 
   * Great Plains Rural Health Initiative - Grand Forks ARS
  $915,000
   For several pilot studies on rural health problems related to diet in the Northern Great Plains - particularly the diets of Native Americans and the rural elderly - through the use of a Mobile Nutrition Laboratory. This funding also includes $400,000 for a new initiative on obesity that will examine the long-term effects of consuming a healthy diet. 
   * Devils Lake Water Utilization
  $350,000
   For the final phase of an irrigation test project to transfer water from Devils Lake to area farmers, adding value to their cropland and taking pressure off the rising lake. 
   * Blackbird Control
  $400,000
   For the U.S. Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) to minimize the damage to sunflowers caused by blackbirds in North Dakota and South Dakota. 
   * Healthier Beef Initiative
  $210,000
   For the Grand Forks Human Nutrition Lab to work on a healthy beef initiative dealing with the production of flax-fed beef in conjunction with the Northern Great Plains Research ARS Laboratory in Mandan, at the University of North Dakota and North Dakota State University. 
   North Dakota State University (NDSU) projects:
   * NDSU/Dickinson State University Wildlife Disease Surveillance
  $1.85 million
   For the remote animal diagnostic and disease surveillance activities in the western range region in Dickinson and Hettinger. 
   * Food Safety Risk Assessment
  $1.5 million
   To address the potential risks to the U.S. food supply from unintentional or intentional (agro-terrorism) acts. 
   * Cool Season Food Legume Research Program
  $564,000
   To improve plant genetics, crop management and develop new uses for peas, lentils and chickpeas. 
   * Value-Added Ruminant Animal Consortia
  $494,000
   For a project with South Dakota, Wyoming and Montana aimed at providing new information and technology that will improve techniques in livestock production and management. The project will be run by a consortium of land grant universities, including North Dakota State University. 
   * Potato Research
  $1.497 million
   For a multi-state research program to improve genetic resistance to pests, reducing the need for pesticides, farmers' costs, and consumers' concerns about pesticides. 
   * Weed Control
  $384,000
   For NDSU's Experiment Station to research methods to control invasive weeds. 
   * Bio-based Nanowhisker Research
  $177,000
   To develop bio-based cellulose "nanowhiskers" for the production of advanced materials used in the transportation, automotive, pharmaceutical and construction industries. 
   * Center for Agriculture Policy and Trade Studies
  $79,000
   To analyze the impact of trade agreements such as the Central American Free Trade Agreement (CAFTA) on agricultural producers and rural economies. 
   * Regional Center for Rural Development
  $115,000
   To assist the state in diversifying the state's economy and retaining population. 
   Energy and Environmental Research Center (EERC) at UND projects: 
   * Water Quality in the Northern Great Plains
  $500,000
   For continued research on the groundwater impacts of agricultural chemicals. 
   * Alternative Fuels Characterization Laboratory
  $282,000
   To develop new products from agricultural residuals, incorporate waste reduction and recycling technologies with fuel production, and formulate clean fuels.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 