SEN. DORGAN SAYS DEFENSE BILL INCLUDES MAJOR FUNDING FOR MILITARY PROJECTS IMPORTANT TO NORTH DAKOTA
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) said Friday an appropriations bill that cleared the Senate Appropriations Committee includes more than $1.4 billion to support missions that are critical to North Dakota's military bases - including Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) missions, B-52 bombers and intercontinental ballistic missiles (ICBMs). 
   The bill also includes a 2.2 percent military pay raise and other compensation for those serving their country in the military.
   Dorgan, a member of the Committee, said the funding in the Defense Appropriations bill includes $443 million to purchase six Global Hawk UAVs and $152 million to purchase 26 Predator UAVs. He said the investment signals the Air Force's intent to quickly ramp up its UAV missions - including the Predator and Global Hawk UAV missions at Grand Forks Air Force Base and the 119th Fighter Wing of the Air National Guard in Fargo.
   Meanwhile, the investment in upgrades to the nation's B-52s and ICBMs will help bolster Minot's dual missions, Dorgan said. The bill includes $141 million for B-52 upgrades and $703 million to modernize the nation's ICBM force, 150 of which are stationed at Minot.
   "The Defense Appropriations bill includes a significant investment in the Air Force missions that are stationed at North Dakota's military installations, and that is a good sign that our state's role in keeping our country secure will be solid for a long time," Dorgan said. "This signifies an effort to keep our B-52 fleet and ICBMs up to date, and the funding for UAV missions will help ensure Predators and Global Hawks arrive soon at Grand Forks."
   Dorgan said the bill also includes an across-the-board 2.2 percent pay raise for military personnel, as well as additional raises for some warrant officers and NCOs. Funding is also increased to help pay for housing for personnel who live off-base.
   "We have a responsibility to provide for the men and women who serve in our military, especially at a time when we are fighting a war," Dorgan said. "I'm proud that we were able to give a well-deserved boost in pay and benefits for our troops."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 