SEN. DORGAN'S ACTION SUMMIT TO FEATURE TOP MILITARY EXPERTS, DISPLAYS OF UNMANNED AIRCRAFT SYSTEMS
  The Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS) Action Summit organized Monday by Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) will include speeches from some of the military's top unmanned aircraft experts, displays of models and actual unmanned aerial vehicles, and roundtable discussions on the future of the technology and the ways it can enhance the regional economy. The two-day Action Summit begins Monday, March 26, at the Alerus Center.  
   The keynote speaker at Dorgan's Action Summit will be Brigadier General Paul Dettmer, who serves as the Air Force's head of intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance. Attendees will also hear from Dyke Weatherington, Deputy of the Pentagon's UAS Task Force, and Michael Pitts, Director of the UAS Planning Office at U.S. Customs and Border Protection. 
   Dorgan said their expertise will help attendees learn more about the way UAS is playing an increasingly significant role in maintaining the nation's security. He said it will also help brainstorm ways to harness the new UAS mission at Grand Forks Air Force Base and Fargo's Happy Hooligans, as well as the aircraft Customs and Border Protection would like to bring to Grand Forks, to grow the region's economy in sectors such as agriculture and high-tech research. 
   Attendees at the Action Summit will also have the opportunity to see the aircraft up close. Northrup Grumman will supply a 1/5-size model of a Global Hawk UAV similar to the version that will be based at Grand Forks Air Force Base. Swift Engineering, another company that builds UAVs, will display an actual "Killer Bee" aircraft. 
   "I'm pleased that this Action Summit will give residents of the Grand Forks area an opportunity to talk about unmanned aircraft systems with some of our nation's top experts, and as well as the chance to see this technology up close," Dorgan said. "The new UAS missions coming to the Red River Valley offer some exciting opportunities for our region, and this event will be another important step in our effort to harness these new missions to grow our economy and help expand the Red River Valley Research Corridor." 
   The public is invited to attend the Action Summit. For more information or to register, please visit the Red River Valley Research Corridor Coordinating Center's Web site at www.theresearchcorridor.com.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 