DELEGATION SECURES FUNDING FOR TRANSPORTATION, ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS
  Sens. Byron Dorgan and Kent Conrad and Rep. Earl Pomeroy announced Monday that Congress has approved a bill providing substantial support to North Dakota's transportation network, such as community airports, interstate construction and Amtrak service. Overall, the bill directs $9.2 million to transportation and economic development projects in the state.  
   The delegation secured funding for upgrades at airports in Bismarck, Jamestown and Devils Lake, as well as projects that will improve road conditions around the state. Congress restored cuts proposed by the Administration to the Essential Air Service (EAS) and the Airport Improvement programs, which help maintain service in small airports, including many in North Dakota. 
   The delegation also directed funding to several projects that will help sustain and grow North Dakota's economy - including a technical training center in Minot, a new building for an energy technology training center in Bismarck, and capital investments for the University of North Dakota's (UND) Center for Innovation. 
   Lawmakers also voted to reverse the President's proposal to "zero out" funding for Amtrak, allocating $1.32 billion for the next fiscal year. The funding level will ensure Amtrak can continue its long-distance rail services such as the Empire Builder, which served 100,000 North Dakotans last year. 
   "This is a strong bill that will bolster the health of the economy and transportation network of our state and our nation," Dorgan said. "I am particularly proud of Congress' strong statement that Amtrak is an important asset for the entire country, not something that should exist only on the east coast." 
   "This bill makes a substantial investment in the future of North Dakota," Senator Conrad said. "It supports our state's transportation infrastructure, increasing jobs and business activity in our state. It also invests in educating and training those that will fuel the fire of North Dakota's economic expansion." 
   "North Dakota's growth is substantially dependent on a strong, reliable transportation infrastructure," Rep. Pomeroy said. "All levels of government, in conjunction with our communities, have been working to attract new investment in our state. These funds are a significant contribution to that effort." 
   Economic development and transportation initiatives for North Dakota that are in the bill include: 
   * North Dakota Statewide Transit
  $1.25 million
   This funding will be used to purchase vehicles, upgrade dispatch systems, and make other capital investments for various North Dakota transit systems.
   * Jamestown Municipal Airport
  $1.65 million
   This funding will be used to build a 10-foot fence to keep out wildlife and other security threats, construct a facility to house the airport's fire truck, and correct a design flaw in the taxiway.
   * Devils Lake Airport
  $1.2 million
   This funding will be used to extend the runway to meet airline needs and comply with FAA obstruction rules, to build a 10-foot wildlife/security fence to meet Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) regulations, and to construct an Aircraft/Fire Service Building on the airport apron that will house a fire truck.
   * Bismarck Municipal Airport
  $800,000
   The funding will pay for the rehabilitation of the Bismarck Airport's taxiway, including addressing excessive cracking and foreign object problems resulting from age and traffic pressure.
   * I-94 Westbound Reconstruction
  $1 million
   This project will reconstruct the westbound I-94 roadway from the Buffalo Interchange, located near Buffalo, North Dakota, to the Wheatland Interchange, near West Fargo. The reconstruction is necessary due to deteriorating pavement.
   * Spirit Lake Nation Tokio-Ephriam Road
  $400,000
   This funding will be used to widen the shoulder of a nine-mile patch on Bureau of Indian Affairs Routes 20 and 21 on the Spirit Lake Nation.
   * Northwest Career and Technology Center at Minot
  $250,000
   This funding will be used to develop a technical training center in the northwest region of North Dakota for post-secondary, secondary, and community education, training and retraining. The center will provide training to students in 16 rural North Dakota schools through interactive distance education.
   * Family Student Housing at United Tribes Technical College
  $200,000
   This funding will be used to build a 36,000-square foot apartment building that will house 24 families. The project will help correct the severe shortage of family housing that a Department of Education study highlighted.
   * Dunn County Community Center at Killdeer
  $350,000
   This funding will be used to build a new community center that will serve the recreation, social and job training needs of Killdeer and the surrounding area. The center will complement the aggressive economic development initiatives in the region, which is trying to reverse its current outmigration trend.
   * University of North Dakota Center for Innovation
  $350,000
   This funding will be used by the UND Center for Innovation for the development of a technology transfer and commercialization center at the University of North Dakota and for capital purchases at the UND Ina Mae Rude Entrepreneur Center. These capital investments include a wet lab and information technology infrastructure equipment to complete the construction of the 20,000 square foot center.
   * Rural Economic Area Partnership (REAP) Zones
  $400,000
   This funding will support projects in the state's two REAP Zones. The REAP program's goal is to spur economic activity and help families in rural areas that are experiencing population loss and economic upheaval. The zones, which cover several counties and American Indian reservations, are in north-central and southwestern North Dakota.
   * Renovation of Dakota Boys and Girls Ranch Residential Treatment Facilities at Minot
  $650,000
   This funding will be used to replace and update furnaces, waterlines, alarm systems and other infrastructure at the Dakota Boys and Girls Ranch. The Boys and Girls Ranch provides co-education treatment programs for children who struggle with emotional, behavioral and academic challenges.
   * National Energy Technology Training and Education Facility at Bismarck
  $300,000
   This funding will be used to construct a facility that will expand classroom space for Bismarck State College's national energy technology training and education program. Enrollment in the program has grown by 240% since 1990.
   * Turtle Mountain Vocational Education Center at Belcourt
  $200,000
   This funding would be used to establish a vocational education center at Turtle Mountain Community College. The center will focus on education, training and retraining in building trades and other technical careers that are underrepresented in the region, and will provide additional classrooms for welding, automotive and other important technical programs.
   * Prairie Community Development Center at Minot
  $200,000
   This funding will be used for a program at the Minot Area Community Development Foundation to provide marketing and financing support that will help rural communities, businesses and organizations foster community growth and entrepreneurship.
 
 