SEN. DORGAN PRESENTS DICKINSON STATE UNIVERSITY OFFICIALS WITH $1.85 MILLION CHECK FOR ANIMAL SURVEILLANCE PROGRAM
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) presented school officials Monday with a symbolic check for the $1.85 million he secured for the Remote Diagnostic and Disease Surveillance program, and said the initiative - which is run jointly by Dickinson State University (DSU) and North Dakota State University (NDSU) - is developing a network of resources to prevent and react to threats to the nation's food supply. "This is an exciting new use of technology to keep our food supply safe, and DSU is taking a leadership role," Dorgan said.  
   Dorgan secured the $1.85 million for the project in the Agriculture Appropriations bill that passed Congress and was signed into law earlier in November. The project addresses the growing need to ensure the security of the nation's food supply by taking steps such as using RFID technology to track cattle. The project also includes a rapid response team developed by the Dickinson Research and Extension Center to respond to outbreaks, an investigation group to identify causes and factors of an outbreak, and a team to develop communication protocol and educate first responders involved in the event of an agro-security crisis. The effort will help protect our country in the case of bioterror attack or disease outbreak and keep America's food supply safe, Dorgan said. 
   "This project is important not just to the ranchers in our state, but to producers and consumers across the country," Dorgan said. "Using state-of-the-art technology and professionals from a variety of disciplines, we are developing an effective program to keep our food supply safe and respond quickly to disease or terrorist threats that threaten our food supply." 
   Dorgan also spoke about his new initiative to create an Energy Corridor in western North Dakota, which he announced earlier in the day in Bismarck. The new plan would capitalize on the provisions Dorgan helped write into the energy bill earlier this year and tap into western North Dakota's potential to lead the Upper Great Plains in energy development. Dorgan said he envisions an Energy Corridor that would serve as a counterpart to the Red River Valley Research Corridor, which has spurred economic development and high-paying jobs in North Dakota based on the technology sector. 
   "As our country moves toward a goal of energy independence, North Dakota is positioned to be a leader," Dorgan said. "We have a vast and diverse stock of energy resources - including oil, coal, wind, ethanol and other sources. We need to craft a plan to harness that potential and translate it into good, high-paying jobs." 
   Dorgan said he would use his seat on the Senate Appropriations Committee next year to provide funding for a coordinating office, to be located at Bismarck State College, that would oversee the strategic development and execution of plans to grow the oil, coal, and renewable energy sectors in the state, and western North Dakota in particular.
 
 