SEN. DORGAN ANNOUNCES HE WILL CREATE AN ENERGY CORRIDOR OFFICE IN WESTERN NORTH DAKOTA TO HELP GROW ENERGY SECTOR
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) announced today a new plan that would capitalize on the provisions he helped write into the energy bill earlier this year and tap into western North Dakota's potential to lead the Upper Great Plains in energy development.  
   Dorgan, at a press conference at Bismarck State College (BSC), proposed the creation of an "Energy Corridor" in the western part of the state to provide a regional support network for energy development. Western North Dakota, he said, can be the hub in the Upper Great Plains for new energy-related business fueled by the energy bill, which creates new policies to encourage and grow oil production, clean-coal technology, ethanol and biodiesel development, and wind energy. 
   "North Dakota has more diverse sources of energy than nearly any other state," said Dorgan, a member of the Energy Committee who helped negotiate the final energy bill. "I want us to harness that potential and translate it into good, high-paying jobs in the energy industry here in North Dakota." 
   Dorgan said he intends to use his seat on the Senate Appropriations Committee next year to provide funding for an "Energy Corridor Coordinating Office," to be located at BSC, that would coordinate the opportunities to use federal funding to grow our energy industry in the state. "The energy industry jobs are some of the highest paying jobs in the state," Dorgan said. He said he envisions developing the concept of an "Energy Corridor" in central and western North Dakota that would serve as a counterpart to the Red River Valley Research Corridor, which has spurred economic development and high-paying jobs in North Dakota based on the growing technology sector. 
   "If we combine our state's natural resources, the brainpower at our universities and the work ethic of our citizens, the possibilities for new jobs that pay well are unlimited," Dorgan said. 
   The Senator also announced he is planning a statewide conference specifically aimed at informing North Dakota business leaders and energy producers how they can take advantage of the many provisions of the federal energy bill that could benefit their businesses--and provide more job opportunities in the state. That conference will take place in Bismarck and be held sometime next year, Dorgan said. 
   Dorgan presented BSC officials with a symbolic check of $300,000, which he secured through his work on the Senate Appropriations Committee, for construction of the National Energy Technology Training and Education Facility at Bismarck State College. He said BSC is a national leader in our nation's growing energy technology training programs. Dorgan included this funding for the program in a spending bill that passed the Senate Friday.
 
 