SENATE APPROVES FUNDING FOR NORTH DAKOTA PROJECTS, SENS. DORGAN, CONRAD ANNOUNCE
  An appropriations bill that was approved Thursday by the U.S. Senate includes funding for 10 economic development and transportation projects around the state, including strong support for Amtrak and programs that help stabilize service at North Dakota's airports, Sens. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) and Kent Conrad (D-ND) said.  
   Dorgan and Conrad secured nearly $3 million for projects that will spur economic development and educational opportunities across the state. A $300,000 earmark will allow the Dakota Boys and Girls Ranch to make upgrades to its facilities that will allow it to continue its work treating children with emotional, behavioral and academic challenges. In Fargo, projects include $350,000 to continue student traineeships at the North Dakota State University Technology Park. 
   The bill also includes $1.45 billion for Amtrak, a reversal of a Bush Administration proposal that would have ended long-distance Amtrak services such as the Empire Builder by eliminating all funding for long-distance rail service. Dorgan and Conrad said the funding will ensure that Amtrak will continue serving North Dakota - which saw a 17 percent increase in ridership last year. 
   The bill also includes support for airports in North Dakota's small communities. The Senate reversed the Bush Administration's proposal to halve funding for the Essential Air Service Program (EAS), which subsidizes air service in Jamestown, Devils Lake, Dickinson and Williston. It also restored funding for the Airport Improvement Program, which helps airports across the country with infrastructure improvements - most recently by supplying the bulk of funding for the $2.4 million construction of a new airport terminal at Devils Lake. 
   "This is important legislation that will help North Dakota continue to grow its economy and improve its quality of life," Dorgan said. "The projects that receive funding under this legislation will give a boost to those communities, and the work we've done to support our transportation network, both on the railroad and air travel, will also complement the development of our rural economy. As energy prices continue to rise, it's important that we maintain our public transportation, and this bill will ensure North Dakota have several options." 
   "This is a victory for North Dakota. This funding will support job creation, educational opportunities and our state's transportation systems, three vital ingredients to the continuation of North Dakota's economic expansion," said Senator Conrad, ranking member of the Senate Budget Committee. 
   The legislation - the Transportation, Treasury and HUD Appropriations bill - goes next to a conference committee. 
   A list of North Dakota projects included in the bill is below: 
   North Dakota Statewide Transit
   $2.225 million
   This funding will be used to purchase buses and upgrade a dispatch system in Bismarck; replace a vehicle and renovate a bus garage in Grand Forks; purchase a trolley bus, a transit bus and a bus for the Senior Commission in Fargo; buy a transit vehicle in Minot; and to build a new public transit facility and purchase replacement buses and vans that serve mostly elderly and disabled populations in rural North Dakota. 
   Dunn County Community Center at Killdeer
   $350,000
   This funding will be used to build a new community center that will serve the recreation, social and job training needs of Killdeer and the surrounding area. The center will complement the aggressive economic development initiatives in the region, which is trying to reverse its current outmigration trend. 
   NDSU Transit Center for Small Urban Areas at Fargo
   $400,000
   This funding will be used to provide rural transit officials with the latest technology and innovative methods of operating and managing transit systems. This will be used to improve the mobility and accessibility of residents in rural areas and smaller cities. 
   Advanced Technology Career Training Center at Fargo
   $350,000
   This funding will be used to continue advanced technology traineeships for graduate and undergraduate students at the North Dakota State University Research Technology Park. The focus is on nanotechnology, microelectronics and other high-tech areas. The program expands upon Dorgan's Red River Valley Research Corridor initiative. 
   Rural Economic Area Partnership (REAP) Zones
   $400,000
   This funding will support projects in the state's two REAP Zones. The REAP program's goal is to spur economic activity and help families in rural areas experiencing population loss and economic upheaval. The Zones, which cover several counties and American Indian reservations, are in north-central and southwestern North Dakota. 
   Renovation of Dakota Boys and Girls Ranch Residential Treatment Facilities at Minot
   $300,000
   This funding will be used to replace and update furnaces, waterlines, alarm systems and other infrastructure at the Dakota Boys and Girls Ranch. The Boys and Girls Ranch provides co-education treatment programs for children who struggle with emotional, behavioral and academic challenges. 
   National Energy Technology Training and Education Facility at Bismarck
  $300,000
   This funding will be used to construct a facility that will expand classroom space for Bismarck State College's national energy technology training and education program. Enrollment in the program has grown by 240% since 1990. 
   Northwest Career and Technology Center at Minot
   $250,000
   This funding would be used to develop a technical training center for post-secondary, secondary and community education, training and re-training. The center will provide training to students in 16 rural North Dakota schools through interactive distance education. 
   Family Student Housing at United Tribes Technical College
   $200,000
   This funding will be used to build a 36,000-square foot apartment building that will house 24 families. The project will help correct the severe shortage of family housing that a Department of Education study highlighted. 
   Turtle Mountain Vocational Education Center at Belcourt
   $200,000
   This funding would be used to establish a vocational education center at Turtle Mountain Community College. The center will focus on education, training and retraining in building trades and other technical careers that are underrepresented in the region, and will provide additional classrooms for welding, automotive and other important technical programs. 
   Prairie Community Development Center at Minot
   $200,000
   This funding will be used for a program at the Minot Area Community Development Foundation to provide marketing and financing support that will help rural communities, businesses and organizations foster community growth and entrepreneurship.
 
 