SEN. DORGAN WILL ASK FULL SENATE TO DECIDE MISSOURI RIVER WATER FIGHT
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) said he will ask the full U.S. Senate to decide the escalating battle over Missouri River water levels which came to a boil again Tuesday in the U.S. Senate Appropriations Committee.  
   Dorgan's announcement came as he and Senator Conrad Burns (R-MT), set up a final show down on the Senate floor with Senator Kit Bond (R-MO). Dorgan said he wants the full Senate to decide the issue. Dorgan and Burns represent upstream river users - mostly family farmers, small manufacturers and local communities in the fight. Bond represents downstream users - primarily four commercial barge companies which want higher water levels downstream to facilitate barge operations. 
   Last week, Dorgan and Burns won full committee approval for language in the FY 2005 Interior Appropriations bill that would allow upstream states to retain more water from the Missouri River than now allowed. Dorgan cited the effect of prolonged drought in the area and the importance of Missouri River water in limiting the impact of that drought. 
   Senator Bond described the effort by Dorgan and Burns as waging "total nuclear war" against Missouri and the downstream barge companies. 
   Dorgan dismissed that, but did say it is time for all river users, not just upstream users, to "share the pain" of current low Missouri River water levels. "We're tired of seeing our lakes drained while the barge traffic gets preference for water." 
   On Tuesday, Bond inserted his own language in the FY 2005 VA - HUD Appropriations bill that would negate the efforts of Senator Dorgan. "This is clearly something the full Senate needs to decide, and that's where we intend to have it decided," Dorgan said. 
   "Nobody's waging war against anybody," Dorgan added, "but it is time for everyone to sacrifice a little, rather than to just keep asking upstream users to carry the entire burden when Missouri River water levels are low." 
   The final show down could come sometime within the next three weeks on the Senate floor, as it considers the Interior Appropriations bill and the VA-HUD Appropriations bill. The former contains Dorgan's language that benefits upstream states. The latter includes Bond's language which unravels Dorgan's provision to benefit the four barge companies.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Sanjay Talwani, 202/224-2551.
 
 