DELEGATION COMMEMORATES 'FLOOD OF THE CENTURY'
  A decade ago, Sens. Byron Dorgan and Kent Conrad and Rep. Earl Pomeroy rushed to Grand Forks to help the city respond to a massive flood. Today, the congressional delegation joined Grand Forks community leaders to mark the tenth anniversary of the Red River flood and officially dedicate a multimillion-dollar levee and dike system designed to protect the city from future floods. 
   The North Dakota Congressional delegation has secured $224 million in federal funding to help pay for construction of the comprehensive flood protection system - more than half the total cost of the $409 million project. The 30-mile flood protection system is expected to be completed in September.
   "The Red River flood was a tragic event that is impossible for any of us who were here to ever forget," Senator Conrad said. "But 10 years later the scars left by the disaster are beginning to heal. It is my hope that this flood protection system protects the people of Grand Forks from ever experiencing that kind of heartache and disaster again."
   "We have pledged to do everything in our power to ensure that Grand Forks never experiences that kind of destruction again," said Senator Dorgan. "This was the worst flood to hit a metropolitan area that the country had ever seen, second only now to the devastation caused by Hurricane Katrina. This tragedy brought out the best in people, and I was proud to watch the community rebuild a stronger, more vibrant city."
   "Ten years after surviving the Flood of the Century, Grand Forks truly embodies North Dakota's pioneering spirit. Friends and neighbors helped each other rebuild, and the city has come back stronger than ever," Congressman Pomeroy said. "While we will never forget the tragedy of a decade ago, this new flood protection system will help ensure that Grand Forks will never again have to suffer such a tragedy."
   Senator Conrad, Senator Dorgan and Congressman Pomeroy joined former FEMA Director James Lee Witt, Grand Forks Mayor Michael Brown, former Mayor Pat Owens, and other officials, to inspect the city's dikes, pumps and levees.
   In April 1997, the Red River - swollen from the melt of a record snowfall - overflowed its banks and engulfed the Grand Forks region. The floodwaters caused large-scale destruction and forced more than 50,000 residents to evacuate. Fire broke out downtown, destroying 11 buildings and damaging 90 percent of North Dakota's third-largest city. Flood damage totaled nearly $2 billion in the greater Grand Forks area, making it one of the largest natural disasters in U.S. history.
   Working with the local community as well as with state government, the congressional delegation was successful in securing more than $700 million in federal funding to assist in Grand Forks' recovery efforts. Ten years later, the city has been rebuilt and Grand Forks is growing past its pre-flood population
   "The people of Grand Forks have done a tremendous job rebuilding in wake of the Flood of the Century. Faced with a catastrophe beyond imagination, this community has come together with faith, hope and pride to rebuild itself better than ever," the delegation said in a joint statement.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt, Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 