SENS. DORGAN, CONRAD ANNOUNCE NORTH DAKOTA DELEGATES TO U.S. SENATE YOUTH PROGRAM
  Sens. Byron Dorgan and Kent Conrad today announced the appointments of Molly Spaeth and Michael Traynor as the North Dakota delegates to the 45th Annual United States Senate Youth Program in Washington, D.C. The state's high school delegates were designated by Dr. Wayne G. Sanstead, Superintendent of Public Instruction.  
   Molly Spaeth, a resident of Fargo, is Student Council President at Fargo South High School. Among her many leadership activities and honors are National Honor Society, Junior Classical League, Student of the Quarter, Homecoming Court and Cass County Youth Commission. Molly enjoys her volunteer service in the community, as well as serving as a Confirmation teacher. Her hobbies are piano, Guild and Festival Orchestra. 
   Michael Traynor, a student at Fargo Shanley High School, was elected Governor of the North Dakota American Legion Boys State. Among his academic and leadership roles are National Honor Society, President's Education Award, High Honor Roll, Bausch and Lomb Science Award and Student Council. Michael is also committed to community service work, which includes volunteering at the Villa Maria Nursing Home and serving as a nurse assistant at Meritcare Hospital. 
   Chosen as alternates to the 2007 program were Todd Billington, a student at Bismarck Century High School, and Derek Jones, a student at Grand Forks Red River High School. 
   The student delegates - along with two from each of the other 49 states, the District of Columbia, and the Department of Defense Education Activity - will travel to Washington, D.C., during the week of March 3, 2007, for a week of intensive study of American government. Each of the delegates will also receive a $5,000 college scholarship through a grant from the William Randolph Hearst Foundation. 
   "To be chosen as a delegate to the Senate Youth Program is a significant achievement, and these kids deserve our congratulations," Dorgan said. "They've earned this distinction through their hard work in school and the community and I'm confident this trip will help them continue to develop into our country's next generation of leaders." 
   "These young people are some of the best and the brightest. Molly and Michael are the future of North Dakota and our nation," Conrad said. "I hope their time in Washington only furthers their understanding of the importance of public service and the great contributions they can continue to make to our nation."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 