SENATE COMMITTEE APPROVES DORGAN AMENDMENT TO BRING RELIEF TO FAMILY FARMERS, RANCHERS
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) isn't quitting in his effort to secure disaster relief for family farmers and ranchers in North Dakota and across the country.
   Dorgan, in a meeting of the Senate Appropriations Committee Thursday, offered an agriculture disaster package that would bring relief to farmers and ranchers across the country - including $175 million in assistance for producers in North Dakota. The measure was accepted overwhelmingly by a vote of the committee.
   Dorgan said that although the opposition of the President and House majority has blocked the disaster package twice, he will not quit pushing the legislation because it is important to family farmers and ranchers who lost their crops as a result of weather-related disasters. 
   "In North Dakota last year, almost 2 million acres of cropland were lost to weather-related disasters, and energy prices have skyrocketed. There are a lot of producers who need some assistance if they are going to continue farming," Dorgan said. "The President has been pretty successful so far in making sure family farmers and ranchers are stuck with the bill, but I believe the fight for disaster relief is still worth fighting. This vote by the Appropriations Committee is an important step and I'll continue to push to get this package through Congress."
   Dorgan and Senator Kent Conrad (D-ND), along with a bipartisan group of farm-state senators, introduced the provision earlier this year as a stand-alone bill.
   Dorgan also secured nearly $13 million in federal funding in the bill to support agriculture research and rural economic development and health programs in North Dakota. The projects in the bill will help improve crop yields and prevent disease and damage from pests, encourage healthy lifestyles, and help bring jobs and business opportunities to rural communities.
   Specific projects in the bill include:
   Grand Forks Human Nutrition Center
   $1.1 million
   This funding will be used for obesity prevention research and to continue the Healthy Beef Initiative, a collaborative project between the Grand Forks and Mandan Agriculture Research Service that studies how cattle producers can increase levels of the essential Omega-3 fatty acids in meat by changing the animals' diet.
   Red River Valley Agricultural Research Center in Fargo
   $5 million
   This funding will be used in a number of research projects and initiatives relied upon by agricultural producers throughout the Great Plains region. It will support research to improve cereal crops, small grains and sunflowers, as well as initiatives to prevent scab, Canadian thistle and sclerotina - a disease that can cause serious harm to crops such as canola, sunflowers, soybeans, edible beans and lentil. The bill also includes funding for research into plant genetics and food safety.
   Northern Great Plains Research Laboratory in Mandan
   $598,549
   This funding will be used on two collaborative research projects on precision agriculture and wildlife disease.
   Agricultural Diversity/Red River Valley Research Corridor
   $616,000
   This funding will continue a multi-state project that develops and implements strategies and initiatives to expand rural economic opportunities by finding high-value alternatives to current crops, growing those alternative crops, and developing processing facilities for those projects. In addition, the funding will support the Red River Valley Research Corridor Coordinating Office, which commercializes agriculture and research at North Dakota's colleges and universities.
   Blackbird Control and Plot Studies
   $380,000
   This funding will be used to help control blackbird damage that costs North Dakota sunflower producers more than $9 million per year.
   Rural Empowerment Zones and Enterprise Communities
   $10 million
   This funding will help rural empowerment zones across the country, including the Griggs-Steele Empowerment Zone in North Dakota, continue their rural business development, retention and expansion support for businesses and employees of the region. Dorgan helped create the rural empowerment zone initiative to bring jobs and business opportunities to rural areas affected by outmigration. This funding continues the promise of grant funding made to the zone when it received its designation as a Round II Empowerment Zone.
   Projects at UND's Energy and Environmental Research Center (EERC):
   Water Quality Research
   $495,000
   This funding will support research at the EERC in Grand Forks into the hydrology of the Northern Great Plains region. It also will be used to develop water use and quality strategies and models that are relied upon by industry, agriculture and community leaders to make management and regulatory decisions.
   Alternative Fuels Characterization Laboratory
   $279,000
   This funding will be used to continue ongoing research at the EERC's Alternative Fuels Characterization Laboratory to develop value-added agricultural products, optimize new fuel processing technologies, and expand the use of alternative fuels to improve the environment and reduce our country's dependence on foreign oil.
   North Dakota State University (NDSU) projects:
   Remote Diagnostic and Wildlife Disease Surveillance
   $2 million
   This funding will continue a joint project between Dickinson State University and NDSU aimed at enhancing the region's capability to quickly diagnose and respond to a potential disease outbreak in the U.S. agricultural food chain. The project will also examine how electronic animal identification and tracking can be used to strengthen current disease diagnosis initiatives and rapid response to a potential outbreak of anthrax, mad cow disease, Wet Nile virus, foot and mouth disease, and other potential hazards.
   Biobased Nanocomposite Research
   $175,000
   This funding will continue work at North Dakota State University to develop, scale up, and commercialize cellulose nanofibers made from wheat straw that can be used as stronger and lighter-weight building materials for applications in the transportation, automotive, housing, and infrastructure industries. NDSU plans to produce a prototype product and develop an engineering design and business plan for a pilot manufacturing grant.
   Food Safety Initiatives
   $1.4 million
   This funding will be used by NDSU to address potential risks to the U.S. food supply from food-borne hazards or agroterrorism acts. NDSU will expand its research and development of intelligent quality sensors, which detect the spoilage and contamination of food products and integrate risk analysis in food safety.
   Cool Season Legume Research
   $558,000
   This funding will allow NDSU to participate in a five-state research consortium aimed at improving plant genetics and crop management, and developing new uses for peas, lentils and chickpeas.
   Rural Development Center
   $114,000
   This funding will allow the North Dakota Rural Development Center at NDSU to continue its work in rural communities to promote economic opportunities, foster community viability and advance the standard of living of rural residents. The Center focuses on rural business development, entrepreneurship and student outreach.
   Center for Agricultural and Trade Policies
   $148,153
   This funding will be used by NDSU's Center for Agriculture and Trade Policies to provide trade analysis and research to agricultural producers, agribusiness firms, and policymakers to help improve the Northern Plains economy.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 