SEN. DORGAN WINS COMMITTEE OK FOR REMOVING ROADBLOCK TO TRAVEL TO CUBA TO SELL U.S. FARM PRODUCTS
  Sen. Byron Dorgan won approval Thursday from a key Senate committee for legislation that would clear away a roadblock the Bush Administration is using to make it harder for U.S. farmers to sell their farm products to Cuba. 
   The Senate Appropriations Committee approved an amendment Dorgan offered to make it easier for U.S. farmers and agricultural exporters to travel to Cuba. Currently, they need specific licenses for travel to Cuba to sell their products. The Bush Administration routinely delays and denies requests for such licenses, making it difficult for those who wish to travel to Cuba to sell U.S. farm products.
   Dorgan's amendment would authorize a "general license" for travel related to making agricultural and medicine sales to Cuba. That is a blanket authorization to travel without filling out an application or requesting the U.S. government's permission.
   "Cuba has indicated its willingness to buy U.S. farm products and American farmers urgently need the new market Cuba would provide. Congress authorized the sale of U.S. farm products and medicine to Cuba in 2001, but those in the Bush Administration who refuse to acknowledge that the Cold War is over, continue to routinely hobble such sales, blocking travel to Cuba by delaying and denying travel licenses.
   "This amendment removes that roadblock, by eliminating the need to apply for such a license. American farmers would finally be able to sell their products in Cuba without being held back by our own government," Dorgan said.
   Even with the Administration's effort to block travel to Cuba by those wishing to sell farm products there, U.S. farmers have sold $1.3 billion worth of farm goods to Cuba since 2001, including $73 million worth of soybeans and soy products, $47 million worth of wheat, and $49 million worth of corn.
   "Think of the potential, if American farmers were able to sell their products on an even playing field without being hobbled by their own government," Dorgan said.
   The measure will next be considered by the full Senate.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 