SEN. DORGAN ADVOCATES FOR NORTH DAKOTA BASES AT HIGHEST LEVELS OF PENTAGON
  Sens. Byron Dorgan and Kent Conrad and Rep. Earl Pomeroy today met with General Michael Moseley, second in command of the Air Force, to discuss the upcoming Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) round and promote the strengths of North Dakota's bases in Grand Forks, Minot, and Fargo.  
   At the meeting, the delegation stressed the importance of retaining and upgrading Minot's B-52s; adhering to Air Force plans for tanker modernizations that benefit Grand Forks; securing the future of the Happy Hooligans. 
   "North Dakota's military facilities and personnel have shown time and time again that they're among the most effective units in the nation," Dorgan said. "I think the generals understand that the North Dakota bases should remain a key part of our national security picture for years to come." 
   "There are no hangar queens at North Dakota's bases," Senator Conrad said. "Our planes are in the air, patrolling our skies, protecting our nation. And we need to keep them there. That is the message that we delivered in this morning's meeting and it was a message that was heard loud and clear." 
   "We also made it clear that North Dakota is going through the base closure round together," Congressman Pomeroy said. "Each of our installations plays an important role in our national defense, and each is important to North Dakota." 
   The Pentagon meeting served as an opportunity for the delegation to highlight the strengths of the Grand Forks, Minot, and Fargo bases, citing the superior performance of North Dakota units, high quality of life for service members living there, lack of encroachment on the bases, and highly supportive host communities. All of these factors are looked upon favorably by the base closure commission and Pentagon when determining the future of military installations. 
   Each base has unique attributes that will keep them in good stead during the upcoming BRAC round. With 150 Intercontinental Ballistic Missiles and 35 B-52 bombers, Minot is a vital link in our nation's defense. Grand Forks is home to one of the nation's three core tanker wings, which help maintain a globally deployable military force to fight the war on terror. In addition, Fargo's Happy Hooligans take advantage of the area's strong recruiting base to produce consistently outstanding performances. 
   North Dakota's military installations have also benefited from substantial federal investment in recent years. Just last year, the delegation secured more than $92.4 million to upgrade North Dakota's Air Force Bases and fund new North Dakota National Guard projects.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 