SEN. DORGAN ANNOUNCES $2.7 MILLION GRANT FOR UNIVERSITY OF NORTH DAKOTA
  Sen. Byron Dorgan announced a $2.7 million grant from the Department of Energy Wednesday to the University of North Dakota's (UND) Energy and Environmental Research Center (EERC) for research to develop a broad range of technologies to advance development of a hydrogen economy.  
   The money for the research was secured by Dorgan, as a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee. The research will be conducted by the EERC's National Center for Hydrogen Technology, which Dorgan created using his seat on the Senate Appropriations Committee. 
   "Hydrogen fuel cell technology is one of the most promising areas of research in the country," Dorgan said. "Hydrogen is thought to be the successor fuel to gasoline for automobiles of the future, and UND is clearly in the front ranks nationally of the effort to bring that about." 
   The research the EERC will conduct under the grant contract will include identification and development of ways hydrogen fuel cells can be used. The center will also conduct research on how hydrogen can be stored, compressed and transported. 
   "This work has tremendous potential for our country, which needs to forge a new energy future, and for new economic opportunity in North Dakota," Dorgan added. "Transportation consumes a very significant amount of our nation's energy. Having the research required to develop a whole new energy system for powering automobiles conducted here in North Dakota is certain to attract new businesses and industries as that research work is done." 
   Dorgan authored legislation to launch an all-out, Apollo-like research program to develop hydrogen fuel cell technology and the fueling infrastructure to support it. That legislation has been incorporated in the comprehensive Energy Bill the Senate is now considering. He also established the National Center for Hydrogen Technology at the EERC, as part of his Red River Research Corridor, to play a leading role in that effort.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 