SEN. DORGAN SAYS FTC STUDY RESULTS DISAPPOINTING, BUT NOT SURPRISING
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND), who offered the amendment that required the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) study on possible gasoline price gouging released Monday, said he's disappointed with, but not surprised by, its conclusion. 
   "It's pretty hard to find evidence of price gouging if you start with the premise that it is not occurring and even if it is, we shouldn't do anything about it," Dorgan said. "What we have here is a failure to investigate." "For example," Dorgan said, "the FTC investigation only looked at refining and never looked 'upstream' at the price of oil. Yet, they claim '[e]vidence indicated that the price of crude oil, the largest cost component of gasoline, contributed to most of the gasoline price increases that occurred from early 2002 until just before Hurricane Katrina struck the United States'."
   Dorgan said the FTC's political position was evident in testimony by Chairwoman Deborah Platt Majoras, on November 9, 2005 before the Senate Commerce Committee and the Energy and Natural Resources Committee. Gas prices were rising rapidly at that point, and the FTC's "study" was underway. "[T]he market, not price gouging laws, is the best cure for this (higher prices)," Majoras told the committee. She testified that "The Commission remains persuaded that federal price gouging legislation would unnecessarily hurt consumers."
   Dorgan and Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Barbara Boxer (D-CA) offered the amendment that required the FTC to investigate gasoline prices during consideration of the 2005 Energy Bill. It directed the FTC investigation because of rapid and steep price hikes taking place at the pump, as big oil company profits soared to record levels. Many observers said such rapid and large increases could not possibly be explained as the simple result of the market.
   "We hoped there might be an objective attempt to look at what is happening with gasoline prices. That has not happened, and it's pretty clear why," Dorgan said. "The FTC didn't find price gouging because it wasn't looking for it."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 