SEN. DORGAN PRESENTS $1.75M TO MINOT STATE UNIVERSITY'S RURAL METH CENTER, ANNOUNCES HE WILL PARTNER WITH PROGRAM TO HOLD REGIONAL MEETINGS
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) presented a symbolic check for $1.75 million to Minot State University's Rural Methamphetamine Education Demonstration Project Tuesday, funds he said will be used to take the fight against the deadly and addictive drug "to the next level" by expanding its reach and improving its training program.  
   Dorgan also said he intends to partner with MSU on a series of regional meetings to address the education, treatment and law enforcement needs related to meth use and production in a specific region. 
   "Meth use and production has reached epidemic levels in many rural communities throughout the country," Dorgan said. "The best defense comes from community-level programs like the one here at Minot State University, which reaches out to the local level to say, 'You're not alone. We're here to help.' Minot State has taken the funds I've secured and found an effective way to fight this drug that has gained attention and respect around the country. That's why I think it's important that we expand this program and to hold these regional meetings. I hope they will help guide us toward the most effective next steps in combating meth use and production." 
   Dorgan, through his seat on the Senate Appropriations Committee, first began funding MSU's Rural Methamphetamine center in 2001. Since then, Dorgan, has directed $4.2 million in federal funds toward the project, including this year's $1.75 million. This funding represents $750,000 more than last year, which Dorgan said is a testament to the program's success. 
   Dorgan said a key component of center's work is its "Mentor Communities" initiative. The program allows many of its 10 full-time employees and its graduate students to work directly with community leaders and law enforcement officials to develop educational outreach and law enforcement strategies specific to that particular community. Dorgan said the $1.75 million will help expand the number of "Mentor Communities" to 10. MSU already works with Minot, Watford City, Dickinson, Hazen-Beulah, Devils Lake, Fort Buford and Valley City. The new communities to be served by the program have not yet been determined, Dorgan said. 
   The new funding also will be used to train people on high-tech equipment used for analysis and meth cleanup that is being purchased with last year's funds. It also will help the center develop and maintain a database of the soil samples and other meth lab evidence used for research and analysis.
 
 