SENS. DORGAN, GRASSLEY TO PUSH FOR STRONGER FARM PROGRAM PAYMENT LIMITS
  Two farm state Senators - Byron Dorgan (D-ND) and Chuck Grassley (R-IA) - said Monday when the Farm Bill comes to the Senate floor next week, they will work include effective federal farm program payment limits. "The farm program no longer works the way it was intended to work," Senator Dorgan said at a Capitol Hill press conference Monday. "It was intended to help family farmers get through tough times. Today, too often, it helps giant corporate farms pad their balance sheet. We intend to change that," he said.  
   The way the farm program works today "diverts needed resources away from family farmers," Dorgan said. "It also threatens to injure the farm program by eroding public support for it." Dorgan said he and Grassley intend to ask the Senate to include provisions to put real limits on the amount of assistance from the farm program any one person can receive. Their amendment would also require those receiving federal farm program payments to be actively engaged in farming, and require that farm program payments be attributed to a specific person. "Payment caps exist in current law, but in a form that people can and do easily get around," Dorgan said. 
   "Our understanding of what is likely to come from the committee would make that situation worse, not better." "Some may be surprised to see two farm state senators calling for a limitation on farm program payments, but it is precisely because we support family farming that we want these limits to be enacted. The resources we have need to be focused on helping family farmers through tough times, not offering price protection for everything the biggest factory farms in America produce." Dorgan is a member of the Senate Agriculture Appropriations Subcommittee and a member of the Senate Democratic Leadership. Grassley is a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee and Ranking Member of the Senate Finance Committee.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 