SEN. DORGAN 'ABOUT OUT OF PATIENCE' WITH HHS SECRETARY THOMPSON ON PRAIRIE PRESCRIPTIONS PILOT PROJECT
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) is pushing U.S. Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary Tommy Thompson to approve the Prairie Prescriptions Pilot Project, Dorgan's prescription drug importation plan for North Dakota. The plan, which requires Thompson's approval, has languished on Thompson's desk for six months. 
   In a letter sent Wednesday to Thompson, Dorgan said he is "about out of patience" with Thompson's failure to approve the plan. The plan could save North Dakotans more than $80 million annually on prescription drugs. 
   Six months ago, Dorgan met with Thompson to present the two-year pilot plan to allow North Dakota pharmacists to obtain lower-priced drugs from licensed Canadian suppliers, passing the savings on to their North Dakota customers. 
   "When I met with you six months ago, you told me that you would take a hard and honest look at this proposal to see if it could be implemented," Dorgan wrote in the letter to Thompson. "It has now been more than four months since the HHS Task Force on Drug Importation held its last public meeting. And it has been two months since you testified before the Senate Indian Affairs Committee, on which I serve, and told me that you would be getting me an answer 'relatively soon' on the Prairie Prescriptions Pilot Project and the findings of the Task Force." 
   Dorgan helped write a provision in the nation's new Medicare law that allows drug re-importation programs with Canada-but Secretary Thompson must first certify that safety and cost-savings would result. More than 1,000 North Dakota individuals and groups have voiced their support for the plan, including health and consumer groups, county commissions, city councils and more than 900 individuals. 
   "Mr. Secretary, the people of North Dakota are tired of paying the highest prices in the world for prescription drugs," Dorgan wrote. "You know and I know that there is no safety issue with respect to the re-importation of drugs from Canada."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt or Sanjay Talwani, 202/224-2551.
 
 