DELEGATION MEETS WITH TOP AIR FORCE OFFICIALS ON NORTH DAKOTA'S AIR FORCE BASES
  U.S. Senators Byron Dorgan and Kent Conrad and Congressman Earl Pomeroy met with top Air Force officials Wednesday at the Pentagon to discuss issues at North Dakota's Air Force installations and encourage even greater investment in the state.
   In a meeting with Air Force Chief of Staff Gen. T. Michael Moseley, the delegation applauded the decision to expand the B-52 mission at Minot Air Force Base by establishing a new bomber squadron there. The delegation said they will work with their colleagues in Congress to ensure the Air Force has the funding to operate and upgrade the B-52s and to house the additional personnel that will be stationed at Minot. 
   The delegation also pressed Moseley to add a new mission to Grand Forks Air Force Base, which is already preparing for a transition to its new status as home to a fleet of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs). The delegation said the base's top-notch infrastructure and strategic location make it a prime candidate for the new fleet of KC-X tankers. Several months ago, the Air Force published a weapons systems roadmap that indicates that Grand Forks is one of a handful of bases that are candidates to receive the Air Force's new tanker in the next decade.
   The delegation also received an update on the Air Force's plans for Fargo's "Happy Hooligans" Air National Guard unit, which has already transitioned to its new mission of piloting UAVs and flying C-21 cargo aircraft. From their ground control station in Fargo, the Happy Hooligans control Predator UAV missions around the world, including in Iraq and Afghanistan. The delegation worked with the Air Force to bring the UAV mission to the Happy Hooligans and Grand Forks Air Force Base, and said they would work to help the Air Force accelerate the acquisition of UAVs with the aim of expanding their presence in the Red River Valley.
   "Gen. Moseley has always expressed admiration of North Dakota's military bases, and a commitment to them as a key player in maintaining our nation's defense. This morning's meeting was no different," Senator Dorgan said. "Both Minot and Grand Forks Air Force bases have some exciting new missions on the way, and hopefully even more to come. We pledged to continue working closely with the Air Force to ensure they have the resources they need to stand up these new missions."
   "I have tremendous respect for Buzz Moseley. He is a straight shooter and today he reaffirmed his commitment to North Dakota's air bases and the men and women who serve there," Senator Conrad said. "Gen. Moseley recognizes the great value of our bases and is dedicated to ensuring Minot, Grand Forks, and Fargo continue to play their key roles in defending our nation. He knows our bases are in ideal positions to expand and take on new missions."
   "North Dakota's Air Force bases play a vital role in our national defense, and today General Moseley reaffirmed his commitment to those bases," Congressman Pomeroy said. "We discussed the proposed new B-52 squadron to be stationed at Minot, and the increased UAV role for the Grand Forks Air Force Base and Fargo's Happy Hooligans. General Moseley expressed his continued support for these missions, and I look forward to working with him in the future to further expand the top-notch work our bases are doing."
   The delegation was also joined for the meeting by Assistant Vice Chief of Staff Lt. Gen. Frank Klotz, a veteran of three assignments to North Dakota's bases, and Maj. Gen. Larry Spencer, head of the Air Force budget office.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 