SEN. DORGAN COMMENTS ON FINAL BRAC DELIBERATIONS
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) issued the following statement Tuesday, in advance of the final deliberations by the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission. The BRAC hearing is set to get underway tomorrow, although Grand Forks Air Force Base and Fargo's 119th Fighter Wing at Hector Field aren't expected to come up until the Commission addresses Air Force issues, tentatively scheduled to start Thursday morning.  
   The text of Dorgan's statement follows: 
   TEXT OF STATEMENT BY U.S. SENATOR BYRON DORGAN 
   August 23, 2005 
   I, along with Senator Conrad, Congressman Pomeroy and Governor Hoeven, have been in contact with members of the BRAC Commission and their staff as the Commission prepares to make its final decisions this week on the future of North Dakota's military installations in Grand Forks and in Fargo. 
   I expect the final decision to be made Thursday. We already know the doors of both bases will remain open, and I remain hopeful the Commission will affirm that both bases should end up with strong missions, facilities, and manpower. 
   We have been working hard to convince the Commission to afford Grand Forks Air Force Base the opportunity to bed down a future tanker mission, in addition to the robust mission for Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) that the Air Force already has promised the base. 
   With respect to Fargo, we know the UAV mission will involve pilots at the base who will work hand-in-hand with active duty personnel at Grand Forks. We also are working hard to remove the "no flying mission backfill" language from the BRAC Commission's final report so the North Dakota National Guard can work with the Air Force to find aircraft to replace the Happy Hooligans' old-model F-16s, which are due to be retired in 2007. We should not be taking fighter jets away from America's best pilots. I've made that point over and over again to the Commission and to Pentagon officials, and I made it again today.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 