SEN. DORGAN SAYS HE'LL TAKE TESTIMONY OF TRIBAL LEADERS TO CONGRESS TO FIGHT PROPOSED CUTS
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) said Thursday he is deeply concerned by North Dakota tribal leaders' testimony on the effect the President's proposed cuts to American Indian housing, health and education programs would have on tribal communities. Sen. Dorgan, speaking at a Senate Indian Affairs Committee hearing at United Tribes Technical College, pledged to take the information he gathered in a field hearing here back to Congress to fight to restore the funding.  
   Dorgan, who serves as Vice Chair of the Committee, said he will relay the first-hand accounts he heard to members of Congress to help persuade them to support programs that give vital assistance to American Indian communities. Economic development is sorely needed on many reservations, Dorgan said, and the federal government should do all it can to help tribal communities build and improve schools, health centers, housing, detention facilities, courts, water and sewer systems. 
   Among the Indian-related programs eliminated in the Administration's proposed budget are the Bureau of Indian Affairs' funding for United Tribes Technical College, the Johnson O'Malley education program and Urban Indian health programs. It also proposes to slash funding for welfare assistance and school and health facility construction. 
   "The budget that the President proposed to Congress is a stunning example of misplaced priorities," Dorgan said. "He has broken the promises the Administration made to American Indians when he took office. Indian communities are facing a bona fide crisis in health care, education and critical infrastructure. But instead of offering a helping hand, this budget eliminates Bureau of Indian Affairs funding for United Tribes Technical College and slashes funding for school construction and other important Indian programs. The personal examples offered by the tribal leaders who testified today exposed the human cost of these misguided policies. We can do better than a budget that gives tax cuts to the most wealthy Americans and slashes programs that help build our tribal communities." 
   Dorgan invited representatives from all of North Dakota's tribes, including Ron His Horse Is Thunder, Chairman of the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe; Tex Hall, Chairman of the Three Affiliated Tribes; Ken Davis, Chairman of the Turtle Mountain Band of Chippewa; Myra Pearson, Chair of the Spirit Lake Tribe; and James "JC" Crawford, Chairman of the Sisseton-Wahpeton Oyate Tribe.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 