SEN. DORGAN BILL WOULD BAN U.S. SALE OF IMPORTED SWEATSHOP PRODUCTS
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) introduced legislation Tuesday to bar the U.S. sale of imported products made in sweatshop factories. In an innovative enforcement twist, the legislation not only imposes a hefty fine for violating the ban, but also gives those who sell legitimately produced products the right to sue to recover damages from those who violate the prohibition.  
   Joining Dorgan in co-sponsoring the legislation are lead co-sponsors Senator Lindsey Graham (R-SC) and Sherrod Brown (D-OH), as well as Senators Robert Byrd (D-WV), Russ Feingold (D-WI), and Bernie Sanders (I-VT). 
   "This bill is very simple," Dorgan said. "It would make it illegal to bring the product of sweatshop factories - factories where workers are abused in violation of that country's labor laws - into this country. It imposes a $10,000 fine for each violation. Finally, and perhaps most importantly, it also allows U.S. retailers the right to sue their competitors in U.S. courts if their competitors sell merchandise produced in sweatshop factories." 
   "There is no reason for the United States of America to allow the sale of products made in slave labor-like conditions," Dorgan said. "This bill would help put an end to it. It would also stand up for American producers and American workers and tell them they don't have to compete against those who cut corners at the cost of human health, dignity and even human lives." 
   "Free trade" agreements negotiated between the U.S. and other countries have fueled a growth in sweatshop production, Dorgan said, since products manufactured by those countries enter the United States duty free. 
   In one instance of sweatshop manufacturing in Jordan, which followed a "free trade" agreement with that country, workers were forced to work 20 hour days, often weren't paid for months, and were frequently hit by supervisors and even jailed when they complained. One worker was paid only $50 for five months of work. 
   "It's all part of a global strategy by some corporations to find the cheapest possible labor and to exploit free trade agreements," Dorgan said. 
   "The best way to put a stop to it is to simply prohibit the sale of products sold in sweatshops, and make sure there are powerful incentives to see that the prohibition is respected and enforced," Dorgan said.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 