SEN. DORGAN BILL TO HELP RECOVER $15 MILLION IN CRIMINAL DEBT OUTSTANDING IN NORTH DAKOTA
  The U.S. Department of Justice would be given tools that will help it collect more than $15 million in restitution and fines that has been ordered by federal courts in North Dakota, but never recovered, under legislation introduced Friday by Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND). 
   The bill, which Dorgan introduced with Senator Charles Grassley (R-IA) and a bipartisan group of Senate colleagues, would remove existing barriers that hamper the ability of criminal justice officials to collect outstanding debt, and provide new tools to prevent criminal defendants from spending or hiding their ill-gotten gains and other financial assets so they will be available to pay restitution owed to victims of crime.
   Dorgan said the legislation is necessary to bolster a program that collects on average only 4 cents for every dollar of criminal debt owed, according to the Government Accountability Office. More than $41 billion in federal criminal debt is owed to crime victims but has not been collected nationwide, he said. Every dollar in restitution and fines that is not collected from convicted criminals represents justice denied to victims of their crimes, Dorgan said.
   "This legislation sends a clear message: If you commit a crime, you will be held accountable," Dorgan said. "Many criminals today have become far too skilled at hiding their assets in million-dollar mansions and other schemes, and the Department of Justice has not had the tools to stop it. We owe it to crime victims to make criminal debt collection a top priority."
   "My staff and I strongly support this necessary improvement in legislation aimed at assisting victims of crime. It represents important progress toward ensuring that victims of crime are one step closer to being made whole," said United States Attorney Drew Wrigley of Fargo, North Dakota.
   Dorgan's bill has been endorsed by a number of organizations that advocate for the well-being of crime victims, including the National Center for Victims of Crime, Mothers Against Drunk Driving, National Organization for Victims Assistance, National Network to End Domestic Violence, and others.
   Dorgan was joined in sponsoring the bill by Senators Charles Grassley (R-IA), Richard Durbin (D-IL), Mike DeWine (R-OH) and Susan Collins (R-ME).
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 