SENATE AGRICULTURE PANEL HOLDS HEARING ON SEN. DORGAN'S PESTICIDE PRICE HARMONIZATION BILL
  A key Senate Agriculture panel heard testimony Wednesday on Sen. Byron Dorgan's (D-ND) legislation to allow North Dakota farmers to import farm chemicals from Canada, allowing them take advantage of the lower Canadian prices. Dorgan and Mark Gage of Page, North Dakota, president of the National Association of Wheat Growers, testified before the panel. 
   "This hearing is an important step forward in the effort to stop chemical companies from unfairly charging American farmers significantly more than they charge Canadian farmers for nearly identical chemicals," Dorgan said. "Price harmonization will permit U.S. farmers to buy those lower-priced chemicals in Canada and use them here, and hopefully exert downward pressure on chemical prices here in the United States."
   The hearing was conducted by the Senate Agriculture Subcommittee on Production and Price Competitiveness. The legislation would direct the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to register Canadian pesticides that are virtually identical to American pesticides now in use. The next step on congressional consideration of the bill will be a vote by the subcommittee on the legislation at a later date.
   The bi-partisan legislation is cosponsored by Senators Kent Conrad (D-ND), Conrad Burns (R-MT), Max Baucus (D-MT), Michael Crapo (R-ID), Tom Daschle (D-SD) and Tim Johnson (D-SD). It is supported by farm groups including the National Barley Council and National Farmers Union.
   According to a North Dakota State University study, North Dakota farmers paid an additional $20 million in 2002 in increased pesticide and herbicide costs over what they would have paid for the same chemicals in Canada. On the 2.25 million acres North Dakota farmers treat with glyphosate, the active ingredient in the herbicide Roundup, they pay $1.40 to $1.83 per acre more than their Canadian counterparts for an added annual cost of about $3.7 million.
   "For far too long, American farmers have watched their neighbors to the north apply pesticides that are used in both countries, on the same crops, and get a price cut. That's not fair, and it's not fair trade," Dorgan said.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 