EMERGENCY CHIEF TO VISIT DEVILS LAKE ON JULY 1
  The nation's top emergency response official will personally inspect the Devils Lake flooding crisis in a tour of the region scheduled for next Thursday, July 1, accepting an invitation extended jointly by North Dakota's congressional delegation and the governor. 
   Senators Kent Conrad and Byron Dorgan, Congressman Earl Pomeroy and Governor John Hoeven together had urged the federal official to come to Devils Lake to survey the crisis. Devils Lake has reached its highest levels in more than 130 years and threatens the lake levee protecting the city and its residents.
   The goal is to convince Michael Brown, Under Secretary for Emergency Preparedness and Response at the Department of Homeland Security, of the urgency of the crisis so he will respond to the repeated requests of the delegation and the governor for a coordinated federal disaster response. The communities around Devils Lake face expensive measures in response to the rising water - including raising the height of the lake levee, relocating homes and raising local roads above the water line.
   "This is a runaway lake and it requires a federal response. There's probably no better way to make that point, and get the federal bureaucracy to cut through the red tape, then to have Under Secretary Brown see it for himself," Senator Conrad said.
   "I'm pleased Under Secretary Michael Brown will be coming to North Dakota to take stock of the situation in Devils Lake," Dorgan said. "We've got to fix the issue of the roads, deal with the water, and make sure everyone at the federal, state and local levels is working together on this issue."
   "Devils Lake is at a crisis point, and FEMA needs to step up and respond to this situation," Congressman Pomeroy said. "Under Secretary Brown will have an up close view of the problems facing the residents of Devils Lake, which will make the severity of the situation perfectly clear."
   "We're pleased that Under Secretary Brown has accepted our invitation to see the conditions at Devils Lake first hand," said Hoeven. "The Under Secretary's visit reflects the urgency and severity of the situation confronted by the Devils Lake area."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 