SENATE APPROVES SEN. DORGAN PLAN TO REFORM 'LENDER LISTS' AT COLLEGES, UNIVERSITIES
  U.S. Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND) won Senate approval Monday for a plan to reform "preferred lender list" practices at the nation's colleges and universities. Under the current system, investigations have shown that some lenders lavish school officials with gifts, favors and even direct payments in return for prominent placement on the school's "preferred lender list," despite loan terms that are far less favorable to students than terms offered by others lenders not on the list. 
   Dorgan offered an amendment today, which the Senate added to the Higher Education Act now being debated in the Senate, to create a national clearinghouse on student loans that would allow students to search in one location for the best loan terms.
   Such a system is needed, Dorgan said, because those on the top of the preferred lender lists often do up to 90% of student loans at a college or university, with the first firm listed often doing as much as 75% of that lending.
   "This clearinghouse will empower students," Dorgan said. "I'd prefer that the preferred lender lists be abolished, but there are objections in the Senate to do that, so I want to at least empower students with information that lets them know they have options and where to find them, and that will allow them to make informed decisions."
   Such a plan is workable, Dorgan added, citing the example of the University of North Dakota which already directs students to websites that allow them to search through dozens of loan options.
   Recent news reports have documented significant abuse in the "preferred lender list" system at some colleges and universities including granting of favors, gifts, free travel and even making direct payments for "service" on corporate advisory boards for college and university officials who compile the lists. Some school officials actually demand such favors.
   In addition to creating the clearinghouse, Dorgan's amendment would require schools to include a disclosure statement on their "preferred lending list" to let students know they might find a better deal by visiting the clearinghouse.
   The amendment would also direct the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to report to Congress on whether the clearinghouse is actually helping students find student loans with better terms and lower interest rates.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 