SEN. DORGAN BILL WOULD SPUR FEDERAL CRIMINAL DEBT COLLECTION
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) says the federal government must do a better job of actually collecting court-ordered criminal restitution and fines levied against convicted criminals. He has introduced legislation that would give the federal Justice Department new tools to do that job.  
   "Collecting court-ordered restitution orders and fines are an important part of assuring justice for the victims of crimes," Dorgan said. "When they go unpaid, justice is denied." 
   Uncollected federal restitution and fine payments totaled nearly $46 billion at the end of fiscal year 2006, an increase of $5 billion over just the year before. 
   Dorgan said recent Government Accounting Office (GAO) studies have revealed some convicted criminals with assets worth hundreds of thousands - and even millions - of dollars have yet to pay what the court ordered them to pay and little is being done to collect it. The GAO study found that some convicted criminals were earning millions of dollars in income, had millions in net worth, and were taking expensive vacations, living in luxurious homes, and transferring business and property to other family members. Yet they had not paid court-ordered restitution and fines owed. The GAO reported the Justice Department's prospects for collecting "were not good." 
   The legislation closes loopholes that allow the sale or transfer of property before a formal restitution order is issued, and gives the government new authority to freeze assets to prevent them from being spent, sold or transferred. It also allows enforcement of fines and restitution orders by criminal justice officials through the Bureau of Prison's Inmate Financial Responsibility Program. 
   Dorgan's bi-partisan legislation is co-sponsored by Senators Charles Grassley (R-IA), Dick Durbin (D-IL) and Susan Collins (R-ME). 
   The legislation is endorsed by a number of national crime prevention and victim groups, including the National Center for Victims of Crime, Mothers Against Drunk Driving, the National Organization for Victims Assistance, Parents of Murdered Children, Inc. and the National Crime Victim Law Institute, among many others.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 