SEN. DORGAN GATHERS ADVICE FROM FARMERS TO HELP BUILD FAIR FARM BILL
  In a meeting here with producers from Flasher and the surrounding area, Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) said Wednesday he will continue to fight in Congress for a farm bill that maintains a strong safety net and gives a fair shake to American family farmers. 
   Dorgan called the farm shop meeting at the Highway 21 Club to hear from North Dakotans about what they would like to see included in the next farm bill when it is considered by Congress in the coming year. He said the input he receives from producers at the meeting will help make the case for a sound and comprehensive farm program.
   "In the last year, farmers have dealt with weather-related disasters, skyrocketing energy prices, and the passage of more trade deals that pull the rug out from under them," Dorgan said. "No one knows more about the challenges facing agriculture than our producers themselves. And what I heard today is that it has never been more important that we have a strong farm program to support them. I plan to take that message back to Washington and push hard for a farm bill that will make sure family farmers can earn a living in rural North Dakota."
   Dorgan said he expects the process for writing a new farm bill will begin this year, perhaps as early as this summer or fall. The House and Senate Agriculture committees will hold hearings in Washington and several states. North Dakota has an enormous stake in the outcome of the process, Dorgan said, because agriculture is the top sector of the state's economy, accounting directly or indirectly for 24 percent of jobs.
   Dorgan also spoke with producers about the need to strengthen U.S. trade policies to ensure that they work for American producers, not against them.
   "U.S. trade negotiators have too often sent jobs overseas sand sold out our family farmers and ranchers," Dorgan said. "We need trade policies that will work for America. Family farmers need fair trade policies more urgently now than ever."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 