SEN. DORGAN, FARMERS UNION PRESIDENT PUSH FOR ACTION TO END HIGH RATES CHARGED BY RAILROAD MONOPOLIES
  Inaction on the part of the federal agency charged with regulating railroads has left the big railroads with monopolies they are using to overcharge family farmers and other shippers, North Dakota Farmers Union President Robert Carlson told Senator Byron Dorgan and other members in testimony before a U.S. Senate committee today. 
   Carlson testified in an official hearing of the Senate Surface Transportation Subcommittee. He said because of mergers and concentration in the railroad industry, grain elevators and other customers are forced to pay rail rates that are far higher than they should be in rural areas. Rail rates in North Dakota and Montana are much higher than benchmarks set by the Surface Transportation Board (STB), the federal agency that is supposed to be overseeing railroads, Carlson said. 
   Meanwhile, he noted, elevators often receive poor rail service. They don't get cars when they order them and the service, in many cases, has not been up to par.
   Dorgan, co-author of the Railroad Competition and Service Improvement Act, said that in areas where there are shippers held captive by monopoly railroads, there needs to be effective government regulation to prevent overcharging.
   Dorgan also challenged STB Chairman Charles Nottingham about the agency's failure to require railroads to provide refunds to shippers after the railroads overcharged for fuel costs. According to some estimates, the railroads improperly collected as much as $6 billion in fuel surcharges from shippers. The STB finally put an end to that kind of collection technique, but it did not require the railroads to refund the overpayments that they have collected from shippers.
   "The railroads have taken advantage of grain shippers, especially captive shippers, in the Upper Great Plains," Carlson said. "This is not a healthy business arrangement. It is hardly a partnership, though it ought to be." 
   Dorgan added, "Grain elevators and other shippers from places like North Dakota are at the mercy of increasingly powerful rail monopolies. We need to pass some legislation that will force the STB to be an effective referee for fair rail rates for those shippers that are held captive by these railroad companies."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 