RED RIVER VALLEY RESEARCH CORRIDOR ADVANCES WITH DEDICATION OF NEW NORTH DAKOTA STATE UNIVERSITY RESEARCH BUILDING
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) and other officials celebrated a major step for North Dakota State University (NDSU) with the dedication of the new NDSU Research 2 Building Saturday.  
   Dorgan, a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, secured nearly all of the $17 million in funding for the high-tech equipment in the building and the roughly $20 million for Defense-related research being done in the facility in the current Fiscal Year. 
   "This is a great day for NDSU," Dorgan said. "With this new facility, the region will help attract outside capital and innovative entrepreneurial partners to the region to develop high-technology businesses that will benefit our nation and expand the local economy. NDSU is fast becoming a major hub for some of the nation's most promising technologies. This building will be a big part of North Dakota's continued economic growth and status as a world-class research center." 
   Already, companies involved in advanced research in the facility include Alien Technology, the world's leading producer of radio-frequency identification (RFID) products, which is helping develop microsensors to protect our troops and borders; Tessera Technologies, a semiconductor leader that is helping to develop highly miniaturized electronics for the intelligence community; and Symyx Technologies, whose high-speed testing techniques are being used to develop corrosion resistant coatings for the U.S. Navy. 
   "Senator Dorgan's work on the Senate Appropriations Committee was instrumental in making this research facility a reality," sail Phil Boudjouk, NDSU Vice President for Research, Creative Activities and Technology Transfer. "This new building, and the equipment inside it, is making North Dakota ever more attractive for investment and will be a magnet for talented researchers. The potential for what NDSU can accomplish here is enormous."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Sanjay Talwani, 202/224-2551.
 
 