ENERGY BILL TO GIVE BOOST TO FARGO-BASED GEM, SEN. DORGAN SAYS
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (ND-D) today test drove an electric, zero-emission vehicle made by Fargo-based Global Electric Motorcars (GEM) LLC that soon will become more sought-after by the federal government as a result of a provision Dorgan added to the recently passed energy bill.  
   Dorgan, at a press conference held at GEM's Fargo office, said the language he added as a member of the Energy Committee and House-Senate Conference Committee could provide a significant boost to the company. At the same time, he said, the provision moves the country in a direction that helps the environment and reduces our addiction to foreign oil. 
   The provision designates GEM, which manufactures electric, zero-emission vehicles, as qualified to be part of the federal government's energy-efficient vehicle fleet. Federal law requires that the federal government reduce its transportation emissions and gasoline consumption. As a result of the provision, GEM's product is now eligible for federal government fleet credits--expanding the company's market-share due to the large size of the government's vehicle fleet. Dorgan said he expects these vehicles will be especially attractive to military bases and national parks. 
   "This provision is a win all-around," Dorgan said. "Reducing vehicle emissions will have huge benefits for our environment, while also creating incentives to reduce our dependence on foreign oil. On the local level, I hope this pays dividends for GEM and its innovative place in a growing market." 
   "The energy bill includes benefits for North Dakota on a wide range of issues--for ethanol, hydrogen, and wind energy--and here we have an example of how one niche business will benefit. I'm very pleased to see this federal legislation have a clear impact on the local level," Dorgan said. 
   Rick Kasper, President and Chief Operating Officer of GEM, said he too is pleased with the bill. "The recently passed energy bill includes a provision that allows federal government agencies to purchase GEM neighborhood electric vehicles to comply with their obligation under federal law to include alternatively fueled vehicles in their fleets," Kasper said. "This provision represents over two years of cooperative effort between Senator Dorgan and Global Electric Motorcars. We are thankful to the Senator and his staff for all that they have done to encourage our growth in the government sector."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 