SEN. DORGAN ISSUES STATEMENT ON STATE OF THE UNION SPEECH
  Following is a statement by Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) reacting to the President's State of the Union speech Tuesday:  
   Text of Remarks
  U.S. Senator Byron Dorgan
  January 23, 2007
   "The President is asking Congress to dramatically increase renewable fuels, particularly bio-fuels and ethanol. He's going to find a 'welcome mat' here on that proposal. We've been pushing for that for quite awhile, so that's encouraging. It just underscores the point that North Dakota has a big part to play in our nation's energy future. 
   "I'm also encouraged by his intention to do something about the increasing cost of health care. Of course, it's easy to talk about that, much harder to do. If he's prepared to take real action, then he'll find Congress ready to work with him. 
   "I didn't hear much tonight from the President about fiscal policy So far the President's administration has piled up mountains of new debt. In addition, he's spent over $400 billion on the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, none of it paid for. We're told he's soon going to ask for another $120 billion, none of it paid for. We need to start dealing with our debt. It's unfair to our kids and our grandkids to just keep piling up billions of dollars in new debt. 
   "The other thing I didn't hear much about tonight was the largest trade deficit in history. We have the largest trade deficit in history. Substantial numbers of American jobs are going overseas, and for those that remain, there is substantial downward pressure on wages. Poverty is rising in this country. We have some very serious challenges here at home and we need to start addressing them. We've ignored them far too long. 
   "Finally, on the issue of Iraq, I believe the President is making a mistake by deepening our involvement in Iraq. The other day the head of our intelligence services, Mr. Negroponte, in testimony before Congress said the "greatest threat" to America's security is Al-Qaeda, whose leaders he said, are in "secure hideaways in Pakistan." 
   "If we have 20,000 American soldiers ready for action, I think they ought to be prepared to go after the leaders of Al-Qaeda, who, according to the President's own head of national intelligence, are not even in Iraq. That ought to be our highest priority, not deepening our involvement in Iraq.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 