SEN. DORGAN URGES HOUSE SUBCOMMITTEE TO SUPPORT HIS LEGISLATION TO ENCOURAGE NEW CHARITABLE DONATIONS
  U.S. Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND) urged the U.S. House Ways and Means Oversight Subcommittee Tuesday to support legislation he has authored to encourage billions of dollars in new donations to charities by removing unfavorable tax consequences for certain donations.  
   The bill, known as the Public Good IRA Rollover Act, has garnered the support of close to 900 charitable organizations across the country. 
   Charitable organizations in North Dakota have received significant gifts as a result of past legislation Senator Dorgan pushed that allows for individuals who have reached age 70 ? to make direct gifts to charities from their individual retirement accounts (IRAs) on a tax-free basis. 
   Dorgan's bill would make last year's temporary provision a permanent part of the tax code, and expand the amount than an individual can donate. 
  "Often individuals are reluctant to make charitable contributions from their IRAs because they face tax penalties," said Dorgan. "By removing these obstacles, my legislation would encourage additional charitable giving and result in new, sizable donations to support the critical work of charities. Charities depend on these individual gifts, which help strengthen our communities and provide assistance to those who need it most." 
   The Public Good IRA Rollover Act would also permit taxpayers who have reached age 59 ? to make tax-favored, life-income gifts to charities from their IRAs. Life-income gifts help charities secure funding commitments now to help plan for their future needs, and also encourage additional charitable giving. 
   The House Ways and Means Oversight Subcommittee held a hearing today on the needs of tax-exempt charitable organizations. Representatives Earl Pomeroy (D-ND) and Wally Herger (R-CA) have introduced a bipartisan companion bill to Dorgan's bill in the U.S. House of Representatives.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 