AGRICULTURE DISASTER AID PACKAGE CHAMPIONED BY DELEGATION PASSES CONGRESS
  The United States Congress today overwhelmingly approved an emergency appropriations bill that includes a provision championed by Sens. Kent Conrad and Byron Dorgan and Rep. Earl Pomeroy that would bring relief to family farmers and ranchers devastated by weather-related disasters.  
   The Congressional delegation called the bipartisan vote in both chambers a major victory, and said the $3 billion in disaster assistance would allow many producers who might otherwise be forced off the land to continue to farm. Unlike previous attempts to secure agriculture disaster relief, assurances have been made that the White House will not attempt to block passage this time. 
   "This is a big victory for family farmers and ranchers in North Dakota and across the nation," Senator Conrad said. "The overwhelming support for disaster assistance illustrated by today's vote demonstrates yet again that the U.S. Congress stands with our nation's farmers and ranchers and sends a clear message to the Administration that disaster relief is a national priority." 
   "Our family farmers and ranchers have been waiting far too long for some relief from the weather-related disasters they've suffered," Senator Dorgan said. "I am proud to have pushed this legislation through the appropriations process. Our work and the work of our producers has finally paid off, and that's good news for those who have suffered weather-related disasters and wonder whether they'll be able to continue farming." 
   "I am delighted that the long, hard fight for disaster assistance for our farmers has finally been won," Congressman Pomeroy said. "The passage of this bill sends an important message -- help is on the way. Farmers in North Dakota deserve this much needed relief from the devastating disasters of the last two years." 
   The agriculture disaster package is part of the $120 billion emergency supplemental appropriations bill that includes funding to help fight the war in Iraq and other emergency spending. 
   The $3 billion in emergency funding would go to farmers and ranchers who have suffered weather-related crop production shortfalls, quality losses and damage to livestock feed supplies. It will also provide payments for the loss of livestock. The disaster package will bring about $150 million in emergency assistance for producers in North Dakota. 
   North Dakota producers have suffered crippling losses in recent years due in large part to significant flooding that prevented nearly one million acres from being planted two years ago, followed by the drought last year - the third worst drought in our nation's history.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 