SEN. DORGAN SAYS U.S. GEOLOGICAL SURVEY TESTIMONY WILL HIGHLIGHT NEED FOR ACTION TO ADDRESS RISING DEVILS LAKE
  U.S. Senator Byron Dorgan announced Monday that the U.S. Geological Survey will testify at a hearing he will chair this week that the wet cycle in the Devils Lake Basin is likely to continue at least another decade - threatening to cause more problems for nearby communities that have struggled to hold back the rising waters. 
   Dorgan, Chairman of the Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee, will hold a hearing Tuesday to examine the situation at Devils Lake. Excess water from the rising Devils Lake used to drain into nearby Stump Lake, but the two lakes recently equalized. Since Stump Lake can no longer be used as a safety valve, the lake could threaten nearby communities if it continues to rise.
   In a press conference Monday in Fargo, Dorgan said the USGS will testify that there is a 72 percent chance that Devils Lake will continue rising for another 10 years, and a 37 percent chance it will continue rising for another 30 years. The agency estimates there is a 5 percent chance the lake will rise 10 feet by 2025.
   The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers will also testify at the hearing. Dorgan said he is also interested in finding out what plans the Corps has to respond to the potential of even higher lake levels.
   "The news that the USGS plans to deliver this week is sobering, but our job is to make sure we have plans in place to deal with Devils Lake if it continues rising," Dorgan said. "We need to ensure the communities around the lake are protected, both in the long term and in case of an emergency. This hearing will be an important part of making sure we have the facts and everyone is doing their part."
   Dorgan also gave a preview of a hearing he will hold Wednesday in Bismarck to discuss carbon capture and storage technology, and the role it will play in North Dakota's energy future. Dorgan will convene a hearing of the Senate Energy Subcommittee, which he chairs, and will be joined by U.S. Senator Jon Tester (D-MT).
   The hearing in Bismarck will bring together experts from federal agencies and the energy industry to discuss the challenges associated with carbon capture technology, as well as its role in ensuring North Dakota's energy industry remains competitive as we work to achieve energy independence and address the threat of global climate change.
   Contact: Justin Kitsch and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 