SEN. DORGAN PRESENTS $650,000 IN FEDERAL FUNDING TO DAKOTA BOYS, GIRLS RANCH
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) today gave a financial boost to renovation efforts at the Dakota Boys and Girls Ranch Friday when he presented a giant symbolic check for $650,000 he was able to secure for the group in this year's federal budget. 
   Dorgan, a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, said the funding was included in the Fiscal Year 2006 Transportation, Treasury, the Judiciary and Housing and Urban Development (TTHUD) Appropriations Bill. Senator Kent Conrad (D-ND) and Congressman Earl Pomeroy (D-ND) also helped to secure the funding. "For more than 50 years, the Dakota Boys and Girls Ranch has helped at-risk children and their families throughout our state," Dorgan said. "Today it is the largest private social service agency in North Dakota, with more than 400 employees serving boys and girls on campuses in Minot, Bismarck and Fargo."
   "I have visited the Minot site and talked to the boys and girls who are there getting help, and I heard right from the mouths of these kids how much the Dakota Boys and Girls Ranch is helping them overcome their difficulties with drugs, abuse and other issues that have affected their lives," Dorgan said. "I am pleased we in Congress were able to secure this funding to help modernize and renovate the facilities at the Dakota Boys and Girls Ranch."
   The $650,000 money will be used for renovations and improvements at the organization's three campuses. Gene Kaseman, President of the Dakota Boys and Girls Ranch, said the improvements will include replacing mechanical systems, such as furnaces, waterlines and outdated alarms; installing a fire suppression system at Dakota Memorial High School; replacing a filtration system to provide clean water on the campus; and replacing the heating ductwork.
   The Dakota Boys and Girls Ranch also recently received funding that originated in the Fiscal Year 2005 budget process. Dorgan said Congress allocated $500,000 for the Ranch's "Transition to Community Mentoring Program," which will be used to train mentors who will help students transition from the Ranch back into society.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 