SEN. DORGAN PRESSES FOR THIRD DAILY FLIGHT TO DICKINSON, WILLISTON
  Sens. Byron Dorgan and Kent Conrad and Rep. Earl Pomeroy, pointing to the popularity of the twice-daily flights from Denver, CO, to Dickinson and Williston, urged Transportation Secretary Norman Mineta to approve an application from Great Lakes Air for additional funding to offset costs of a third daily flight.  
   In a letter to Mineta, the delegation urged him to approve the airline's application for funding by the nation's Essential Air Service (EAS) program to operate a third daily affordable flight to Dickinson and Williston. Now, using EAS funding, Great Lakes operates the route twice daily. 
   The delegation pointed out that two years ago, when the Department of Transportation (DOT) increased EAS funding for the route, Great Lakes switched to larger, 30-passenger planes, resulting in greater customer satisfaction and increased ridership. When Dickinson received a federal Small Community Air Service Development grant in September 2003, Great Lakes was able to add a third daily trip for several months. That flight was "extremely well received," the delegation wrote Mineta. 
   Great Lakes' proposal to the DOT would create a third daily round-trip flight year-round except from January to April. 
   "The request for increased funding to provide a third flight is justified by the increased passenger traffic that this third flight will generate," the delegation said in the letter. Because of last year's grant, "Great Lakes, Dickinson and Williston have been able to lay the foundation for the success of the third flight, thus increasing efficiencies and minimizing the increase in cost for DOT to adopt the third flight going forward." 
   The letter from the delegation adds to the support that the communities of Dickinson and Williston have given to the Great Lakes proposal after considering other proposals for additional air service. 
   To view the delegation's letter to Mineta, go to http://dorgan.senate.gov/newsroom/extras/112204mineta.PDF.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Sanjay Talwani, 202/224-2551.
 
 