SEN. DORGAN PREDICTS SENATE WILL REJECT FCC'S RUSH TO CHANGE MEDIA OWNERSHIP RULES
  U.S. Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND) predicted Wednesday the Senate will vote to reject efforts to relax media ownership rules. "If the FCC proceeds on the schedule it is planning, it will be a big mistake," Dorgan said. "It's clear the concentration of media ownership that has already taken place has not been good for our country. I'm confident any plan to allow additional concentration of media ownership will be rejected."  
   Dorgan said the rushed schedule the FCC is planning for proposing and voting on the proposed rules change is also unacceptable. 
   "In a democracy, making sure that citizens are able to get news and information from a variety of independently owned sources is crucial," Dorgan said. "We already have too much concentration of media ownership. Before the FCC moves forward to allow even more, we need to have an informed, reasoned and unrushed discussion about that. The American people need to be heard." 
   Much more information and analysis is required before any decision is made on media ownership rules, Dorgan said, noting that the FCC has not completed a separate proceeding on the impact of media consolidation on localism or any analysis of concentration's effect on minority ownership. He said the FCC's data do not support relaxing cross ownership rules, which would allow more instances in which both newspaper and broadcast properties in the same market are owned by one entity. He said the FCC's own data show that there is a net loss of local news when newspapers and broadcast properties in the same market have the same owner. 
   Dorgan said the schedule the FCC Chairman is planning - but has not yet publicly announced - calls for two public hearings between now and early November, an announcement of the proposed rules change in mid-November, and a vote by the FCC on that proposal by mid-December. 
   "That schedule is a recipe for rushing to judgment on something we ought to be very, very careful about," Dorgan said. "It does not allow adequate time for the public to be heard, for the FCC to consider what it hears at its two public hearings, or for there to be sufficient thought, consideration and debate on the ramifications of the actual rule changes it intends to propose. For an issue that lies at the heart of our democracy, we need to do much better." 
   Dorgan said he is developing legislation that will address both the process and the policy involved in the FCC's plans. The last time FCC tried to rush through a rules change on media ownership, Dorgan fought for, and won, Senate approval of a rarely used "legislative veto" - a resolution of disapproval - to block it. Eventually, the courts blocked implementation of the rule.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 