SENATORS DETECT LITTLE SUPPORT FOR SOCIAL SECURITY PRIVATE ACCOUNTS PROPOSAL
  Three Democratic Senators just back from a series of Social Security Town Hall Forums around the country said they find little support for the President's proposal among Americans. Sens. Byron Dorgan (D-ND), Max Baucus (D-MT) and Jack Reed (D-RI) say Americans are soundly rejecting plans to take Social Security apart and privatize it.  
   The three were among Democratic Senators who conducted Senate Democratic Policy Committee (DPC) Town Hall Forums on Social Security this past weekend. The forums were held in four cities, Washington, DC, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, Columbus, Ohio, and Providence, Rhode Island. The DPC has also conducted Social Security Town Hall Forums in New York, New York, Las Vegas, Nevada, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, and Phoenix, Arizona. 
   "We've found virtually no support for the President's plan to begin taking the Social Security apart," said Dorgan, Chairman of the DPC presided at the forums. "People are startled to hear that the President's plan would borrow trillions of dollars, increase our debt by trillions of dollars, put the borrowed money in the stock market, cut Social Security benefits at the same time, and then just hope everything would turn out alright. The fact is, there is very little support in this country to turn what has been a dependable Social Security guarantee into a private account gamble. Our job is to strengthen and improve Social Security, not weaken it and certainly not to take it apart," he said. 
   "As I meet with people in my home state of Montana, and around the country, I keep hearing time and time again that people are against privatizing Social Security," said Senator Max Baucus, Ranking Member of the Senate Finance Committee. "Americans are not buying into privatization and that's why I cannot and will not support the plan to privatize Social Security, which would create huge benefit cuts and add trillions of dollars to the debt." 
   "For over sixty years, Social Security has provided dependable and predictable support to retired or disabled workers, their dependents and their survivors," Senator Jack Reed (D-RI). "The reception received at the Town Hall Forum in Rhode Island, and at the other meetings throughout the country, reinforced the fact that we must strengthen Social Security, not privatize it."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 