SENS. DORGAN, DODD TO RENEW PUSH FOR WINDFALL PROFITS REBATE
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) said Tuesday he and Sen. Chris Dodd (D-CT) will renew their effort to enact legislation that would rebate to consumers a portion of windfall profits now being reaped by the big oil companies, if the oil companies do not use those profits to invest in activities that increase domestic energy supplies and help tamp down energy prices. 
   The two federal lawmakers offered such a proposal in the Senate last November, but it was defeated 35-64. Dorgan said he believes circumstances have changed. If those who voted against the plan "haven't seen the light, they may have at least felt the heat," given recent developments, Dorgan said.
   Among those developments, Dorgan said:
   * Gasoline prices rising to "painful and intolerable" levels, with no relief in sight.
   * ExxonMobil awarding a nearly $400 million retirement package to its retiring CEO, making the point that the company is both awash in cash and not using that cash to invest in developing new domestic energy supplies;
   * Both of the above developments taking place when Congress was in recess, meaning many lawmakers were in their home states where they heard first hand from constituents about high prices and the greed evidenced by the ExxonMobil executive's retirement package.
   "These major oil companies have hooked their hose up to the pocketbooks of American citizens and are sucking money from ordinary Americans into the treasury of the giant oil companies," Dorgan said.
   "It has to stop. There can be no more compelling evidence that the price gouging and market manipulation which has produced record oil prices is out of control, and is working to serve the forces of individual greed and corporate gluttony at the painful expense of millions of American consumers," Dorgan said.
   He noted when oil prices were at the $40 per barrel level, oil companies were reporting then-all time record profits. Instead of investing those windfall profits in things that would increase domestic energy supplies and thereby tamp down prices, "they are simply choosing to take the money and run," Dorgan said.
   "I think a sensible public policy would insist that the big oil companies either invest those windfall profits in things that will increase our own domestic energy supplies, or we should return some of that money to consumers. Using them to drop $400 million dollars in the pocket of a big oil executive is simply unacceptable."
   In November of last year, Dorgan and Dodd forced a U.S. Senate vote on a windfall profits rebate plan. The plan applied only to the major integrated oil companies, and would have imposed a 50% windfall profits tax on oil company revenue derived from sales of oil at more than $40 per barrel. Windfall profits invested to boost domestic energy supplies would have been exempt from the tax. Revenues collected by the tax would have been rebated to consumers.
   The measure was defeated. "I don't think the Congress can continue to ignore what's going on," Dorgan said Tuesday.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 