SEN. DORGAN, NORTH DAKOTA AGRICULTURE COMMISSIONER JOHNSON CALL ON CONGRESS, PRESIDENT TO APPROVE SUPPORT FOR FAMILY FARMERS, RANCHERS
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) and North Dakota Agriculture Commissioner Roger Johnson met Tuesday to discuss a strategy to push Congress and the President to approve an agriculture disaster package that would bring much-needed relief to producers whose crops and livestock have been ravaged by weather-related disasters. 
   Dorgan and Johnson met on Capitol Hill to strategize on the next steps to pass an agriculture disaster package Dorgan added to the emergency supplemental bill that funds the Iraq war and hurricane relief. Dorgan, a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, helped write the provision, then offered it as an amendment to the emergency supplemental bill and secured the Committee's unanimous vote. The plan would help family farmers and ranchers whose livelihoods have been threatened by soggy farm fields, skyrocketing energy prices and low commodity prices.
   Johnson, Vice President of the National Association of State Departments of Agriculture (NASDA), delivered a letter from NASDA urging lawmakers to support the agriculture disaster package. Dorgan, who will be a member of the House-Senate conference committee that negotiates the final version of the bill, said he'll use the support of the nation's agriculture commissioners as leverage to push Republican leadership to retain his amendment to help family farmers and ranchers.
   "I support helping farmers whose crops were damaged by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, but producers across the country were affected by severe weather last year that was no less a disaster," Dorgan said. "Many farm families have been put in a tough spot through no fault of their own, and we have an obligation to stand by them in tough times."
   "The legislation, sponsored by Senator Dorgan and Senator Kent Conrad would deliver crop and quality loss assistance to farmers," Johnson said. "It also contains a Livestock Compensation Program for ranchers and will help producers offset record high energy costs."
   The legislation, which Dorgan also sponsored as a stand-alone bill with Senator Kent Conrad (D-ND) and a bipartisan group of Senators, would deliver crop and quality loss assistance to farmers, and contains a Livestock Compensation Program for ranchers. Additionally, the legislation would help producers offset record high energy costs. Dorgan said the legislation would deliver an estimated $175 million to farmers and ranchers in North Dakota, where there was more than 1 million acres of prevented planting last year and nearly 1 million acres washed out by torrential rains.
   "It is important that the disaster assistance be treated as emergency spending," Johnson said. "We do not want to rob Peter to pay Paul by cutting conservation programs or cutting farm commodity programs."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 