AS IT CELEBRATES 60TH BIRTHDAY, SENATE DEMOCRATIC POLICY COMMITTEE PRESENTS ITS HISTORY TO SECRETARY OF SENATE, HISTORICAL OFFICE
  Senate Democratic Policy Committee (DPC) Chairman Byron Dorgan (D-ND) presented Secretary of the Senate Nancy Erickson and the U.S. Senate Historical Office with a copy of a new history of the Senate Democratic Policy Committee, which is celebrating its 60th birthday this month. The history will become part of the permanent collection of the U.S. Senate Historical Office. Joining Erickson Thursday to accept the history were Senate Historian Richard Baker and Associate Senate Historian Don Ritchie.  
   The document chronicles the DPC's history since it was created by legislation signed into law by President Harry S Truman in 1947. It surveys the committee's wide range of activities over the past sixty years, everything from facilitating scheduling of legislation on the Senate floor, to developing policy initiatives, and Dorgan's recent use of the committee to conduct congressional oversight hearings as Republican-controlled authorizing committees all but ceased congressional oversight of the Bush Administration. 
   "This history will be a useful document for future Democratic Caucuses, by allowing them to chart their own course, armed with solid information about how the Democratic Policy Committee has operated over the years. I thank the Senate Historical Office for not only adding this document to its permanent collections, but also for helping with the preparation of the history." 
   The list of past Chairmen of the Senate Democratic Policy Committee reads like a "who's who" of some of the most respected Democratic members of the Senate over the years, including Senators Alban Barkley (D-KY), Lyndon Johnson (D-TX), Mike Mansfield (D-MT), Robert Byrd (D-WV), George Mitchell (D-ME) Tom Daschle (D-SD) and Harry Reid (D-NV). 
   The full history can be viewed on line at www.democrats.senate.gov/dpc.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 