SENS. DORGAN, SNOWE SECURE COMMITMENT FOR HEARING ON THEIR BI-PARTISAN DRUG IMPORTATION LEGISLATION
  Sens. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) and Olympia Snowe (R-ME) issued the following statement Tuesday after meeting with Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-TN) to discuss the need for the U.S. Senate to consider legislation that would allow the importation of lower priced Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved prescription medicines:  
   STATEMENT BY U.S. SENATORS BYRON DORGAN (D-ND) AND OLYMPIA SNOWE (R-ME) 
   "In the coming days we will re-introduce our bipartisan legislation to allow the importation of Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved prescription drugs. 
   "This morning, we met with Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist and the new Chairman of the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee, Senator Mike Enzi (R-WY). In that meeting, we secured a commitment from Senator Frist and Senator Enzi that the HELP Committee will hold a hearing, specifically on our bill, within 90 days. The hearing will deal with our legislation exclusively. 
   "We are determined to pass drug importation legislation in the Senate this year in order to put downward pressure on prescription drug prices. We believe that our bipartisan legislation systematically and thoroughly addresses all the safety issues that have been raised. It is unfair for the pharmaceutical industry to charge American consumers the highest prices in the world for prescription medicines. 
   "Our legislation will make safe FDA approved drugs available to the American consumer at a fraction of what they now cost. 
   "The agreement by the Majority Leader and Chairman of the HELP Committee to hold an exclusive hearing on our bipartisan legislation is a significant step forward in our effort to pass this legislation through the United States Senate. We are determined to get action on our legislation, either through the committee or through an amendment on the floor of the Senate which forces the Senate to deal with this issue."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt, and Sanjay Talwani, 202/224-2551.
 
 