AGRICULTURE SAFETY NET CRUCIAL TO MAINTAINING FAMILY FARMS, SEN. DORGAN SAYS IN LETTER TO BUSH
  Federal programs that provide a safety net for farmers have been crucial in securing the survival of family farms in North Dakota and elsewhere, Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) said in a letter[1] he sent to President Bush Monday.  
   Dorgan sent the letter a day before President Bush's Secretary of Agriculture, Mike Johanns, was scheduled to visit Minot, North Dakota. The letter was in response to what Dorgan called "worrisome" comments the President made earlier this month. When asked if he would support an end to farm payments, President Bush said, "Absolutely ... Let's join hands as wealthy industrialized nations and say to the world, we are going to get rid of all our agricultural subsidies together." 
   Dorgan said he hopes Johanns will return from North Dakota with a message to President Bush that the Administration must support programs that help family farmers deal with unpredictable bad weather, crop diseases and other conditions beyond their control. 
   Johanns accepted an invitation from North Dakota's congressional delegation to hold one of USDA's Farm Bill Forums in the state. The forum will allow North Dakota producers to have input into the shape of the 2007 Farm Bill. Johanns is scheduled to appear July 26 at the North Dakota State Fair in Minot. 
   "I'm glad Secretary Johanns accepted our invitation to come to our state because it's important he hears the views of North Dakotans, who place a high value on family farming and the farm price safety net that helps make it possible," Dorgan said. "We've made a commitment to our farmers and ranchers. They provide a safe, reliable and affordable food supply, and we provide them a modest safety net to help them survive the ups and downs of farming. The president needs to keep that promise." 
   [1]For a letter, see http://dorgan.senate.gov/newsroom/extras/Bush_farm_subsidies_07-25-05.doc
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 