DELEGATION PRESSES HIGH-RANKING AIR FORCE OFFICIALS TO EXPAND UNMANNED AERIAL VEHICLE MISSION
  Sens. Byron Dorgan and Kent Conrad and Congressman Earl Pomeroy were joined Tuesday by Grand Forks community leaders for a series of meetings at the Pentagon to press officials to expedite and expand the Grand Forks Air Force Base's emerging Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) mission. They also advocated basing a new generation of air refueling tankers at the base in the future. 
   In the meetings with high-ranking Air Force officials, the delegation and city leaders said they have welcomed the commitment the Air Force has shown to Grand Forks Air Force Base, but pressed the officials to station even more Predator and Global Hawk UAVs at the facility.
   The Air Force's Predator and Global Hawk are the military's most widely used UAVs. The high-flying Global Hawk is a reconnaissance aircraft that can simultaneously track dozens of moving vehicles over thousands of square miles. The Predator is a smaller reconnaissance aircraft that provides live video to battlefield commanders on the ground and can also carry Hellfire air-to-ground missiles. Both are currently being used in the war in Iraq.
   The delegation said the Air Force should take full advantage of the Grand Forks base's solid infrastructure, the strong support it receives from the community, and other resources such as the Center of Excellence for Defense UAV Education the delegation helped establish at the University of North Dakota.
   The delegation also pressed the Air Force officials to preserve tanker-related infrastructure at the Grand Forks Air Force Base so the next generation of air refueling tankers can be based there.
   "The Air Force has made a firm commitment to Grand Forks Air Force Base as a hub for UAVs, and we'll keep pushing to expand the fleet of UAVs there," Senator Dorgan said. "In addition, we hope the Air Force will return the next generation of air refueling tankers to Grand Forks, and that's the message we took to these meetings today."
   "We received an extremely warm reception today at the Pentagon. Air Force leaders reaffirmed their plans to base Predators in Grand Forks in 2009 and the Global Hawk in 2010. We hope soon thereafter the new tanker will be coming to Grand Forks as well," Senator Conrad said. "Grand Forks Air Force Base will be playing a vital role in our nation's Air Force long into the future," Congressman Pomeroy said. "We continue to make a convincing case for expanding the mission at Grand Forks by showcasing the tremendous community support and the investments in infrastructure that are in place."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 