SENATE APPROVES SENS. DORGAN, COLEMAN AMENDMENT TO BRING COMMON SENSE TO U.S.-CANADA BORDER TRAVEL
  The U.S. Senate Thursday approved legislation by Sens. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) and Norm Coleman (R-MN) that would significantly lower the cost of the State Department's alternative passport card system, allowing Americans to continue routine travel to Canada. The amendment would significantly reduce the financial burden on the thousands of North Dakotans who travel to Canada every month. 
   The State Department announced last year it would begin requiring Americans to have passports--costing just under $100 each--in order to travel to Canada. The agency later proposed an alternative that would force Americans to pay as much as $50 per person for a passport-like identification card allowing them to cross the border.
   The Dorgan-Coleman amendment, which was added to the immigration bill, limits the fees for "passport cards," and provides free alternatives in some cases. The amendment 1) caps the cost of the passport cards for adults at $24; 2) provides free passport cards for children under 18; 3) creates a system of free passes for last-minute trips shorter than 72 hours; and 4) requires the Administration to make exceptions to the passport requirements for supervised groups of children, such as athletic teams or church groups.
   The legislation also delays the requirement for a passport for American travelers until June of 2009 at the earliest.
   "This amendment is a compromise that brings some common sense to the issue of U.S.-Canada border traffic," Dorgan said. "I believe strongly that we need to tighten security at the border to protect this country from terrorists, but that doesn't mean we should place an unfair financial burden on American families who want to travel to Canada for a hockey game or to visit family. I believe this amendment is a practical solution that will help enhance national security without hurting residents of our border areas."
   The provision was added to the immigration bill that the Senate passed late Thursday. Dorgan said that although he worked with Senator Coleman to add the border provision, he still opposed and voted against the broader immigration bill because he believes the legislation will undercut American workers.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 