DELEGATION ANNOUNCES FINAL APPROVAL OF BILL THAT COULD SPEED ARRIVAL OF UNMANNED AIRCRAFT SYSTEMS AT GRAND FORKS
  Sens. Byron Dorgan and Kent Conrad and Rep. Earl Pomeroy announced Friday that the emergency supplemental appropriations bill, which has been approved by Congress and is on the way to the President's desk, includes funding that may speed the deployment of unmanned aircraft systems (UAS) to Grand Forks, North Dakota. The President has announced he will sign the bill.  
   The delegation said the bill includes funding that will allow the Air Force to purchase 30 more Predator unmanned aircraft, some of which may be based at Grand Forks Air Force Base and operated by the Happy Hooligans of the North Dakota Air National Guard. The Senators worked closely with the Air Force to bring the UAS mission to North Dakota's military bases. 
   The bill will also expand North Dakota's role in securing the nation's northern border. The legislation includes $75 million to speed the placement of equipment at the nation's Northern Border Air Wing sites, including Department of Homeland Security UAS that will be based at the Grand Forks branch. The Air Wing at Grand Forks has already begun limited operations, but it will eventually grow to include several dozen staff members that operate surveillance and interdiction missions with helicopters, fixed-wing aircraft and UAS. 
   "It's important for the security of our border and the nation as a whole that we speed the deployment of our new unmanned aircraft system technology, and that's why we worked to include this funding in this bill," Senator Dorgan said. "But this will also give a boost to the efforts to stand up the new UAS missions at Grand Forks Air Force Base and the Grand Forks branch. That will help our region continue to develop its role as a hub of UAS activity." 
   "Our world continues to be a dangerous place and North Dakota has an important role to play in securing our nation," Senator Conrad said. "This funding will bring additional unmanned aerial vehicles to Grand Forks, expanding the emerging missions at the Air Force Base. I, for one, will sleep better at night knowing the men and women based in Grand Forks are standing guard." 
   "The airmen at Grand Forks Air Force Base play an integral role in keeping our nation secure," Congressman Pomeroy said. "I am pleased we were able to bring this funding to help the Grand Forks Air Force Base expand its missions and better protect our northern border."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 