CONGRESS APPROVES SEN. DORGAN BILL CLEARING WAY FOR MEDAL OF HONOR FOR WOODROW WILSON KEEBLE
  The U.S. Congress has given final approval to a bill authored by Sen. Byron Dorgan that clears the way for the President to award a long-overdue Medal of Honor to Woodrow Wilson Keeble, a member of the Sisseton-Wahpeton Sioux tribe who fought in World War II and the Korean War.  
   Dorgan added the bill - which was co-sponsored by Senators Tim Johnson (D-SD), Kent Conrad (D-ND) and John Thune (R-SD) - to the emergency supplemental appropriations bill that was approved by Congress. The President has announced he will sign the bill into law. 
   The Pentagon has told Dorgan that a statute of limitation prevents the President from awarding the medal to Keeble, unless it is specifically authorized by Congress. Their legislation would make clear that the President has the authority to give final approval for Keeble's Medal of Honor, which has already received the recommendation of the Secretary of the Army and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Once the bill is signed, the Secretary of Defense will be able to proceed on the Medal of Honor for Keeble. 
   On Oct. 20, 1951, Keeble - acting single-handedly and while stricken with multiple wounds - crawled through heavy enemy fire and took out three four-man machine gun bunkers and two trenches of enemy troops and saved the lives of dozens of American soldiers who had been pinned down. 
   "The passage of this legislation is an important step that ensures no technicality will prevent Woodrow Wilson Keeble from receiving our military's highest honor," Senator Dorgan said. "It's not up to me to decide who receives a Medal of Honor, but his actions in battle are clearly an example of uncommon valor. I hope this action leads the Defense Department to make a decision soon." 
   "I have been working on this project for five years now, but this soldier, his family and friends have waited fifty years. It's time that the Pentagon and President give this their attention," Senator Johnson said.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 