SEN. DORGAN VOTES 'NO' ON IMMIGRATION PLAN
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) voted against the immigration bill the Senate completed Thursday. 
   Dorgan, who tried to strike provisions out of the bill that would allow millions of addition low-wage replacement workers into our country to take American jobs, said that he believes the bill undercuts American workers and completes the corporate strategy of exporting good American jobs to China while importing cheap labor from Mexico.
   "The first and most important step in dealing with immigration is to get control of our borders and effectively prevent illegal immigrants from coming across our borders," Dorgan said. "The way this bill is written, it invites people to come across our borders who otherwise would be illegal, and stamps them as legal guest workers."
   "The two certain ways to shut off illegal immigration is to have effective border security on the one hand, and to have tough, effective sanctions against employers who hire illegal workers on the other hand.
   "All of the discussion is about immigration with almost no discussion about what this means to American workers who are struggling with lower wages, less healthcare, and fewer pension benefits," Dorgan said.
   "In the new global economy, while American workers are struggling, I think it's wrong for Congress to allow millions of low-wage replacement workers to come in and take American jobs.
   "Unfortunately, the legislation constructed by the Senate is going to legalize millions who are here illegally, while at the same time failing to prevent another flood of illegal immigrants in the future.
   "Let me be clear, there are legal ways for people to apply to become a part of our country's quotas to immigrate to the United States, and I support that. But I do not support the strategy of pushing for more cheap labor to come into this country to replace American workers. That is quick way to dismantle an economic system that built a strong middle class in the American economy."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 