CONFERENCE COMMITTEE COULD DECIDE AGRICULTURE DISASTER AID PACKAGE FATE FIRST WEEK OF JUNE
  Sens. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) and Kent Conrad (D-ND) said Thursday the House-Senate Conference Committee that could decide the fate of the nearly $4 billion emergency disaster aid package for farmers is now expected to hold its first meeting the first week of June. 
   That's one week later than the Memorial Day target congressional leaders had previously set for wrapping up action on the legislation, said Dorgan and Conrad. Dorgan is a member of the conference committee.
   "I think this is an indication that President Bush and others who want to remove the emergency disaster aid package for family farmers from the bill are finding it harder to so than they thought it was going to be," Dorgan said. "But we still have an uphill climb, and a lot of work to do. The President's veto threat against emergency disaster help for family farmers is bad policy. That message is getting through and at least causing Congress to pause before embracing the President's position."
   "America's farmers and ranchers have been hit hard. In North Dakota alone, disaster prevented more than a million acres from being planted last year. This bill is a priority because our producers are in jeopardy," Conrad said. "I'm worried the leadership in the House of Representatives and the White House will once again derail assistance to farmers. The Administration must not turn its back on them again."
   In order to demonstrate support for the agriculture disaster package, Dorgan and several other farm-state Senators established on-line petitions on their Senate websites. Dorgan's petition, located at http://dorgan.senate.gov, has been signed by nearly 4,000 family farmers and others in just over a week. He urged family farmers and those who support them to continue to visit his website to sign the petition.
   Conrad introduced the disaster package with Dorgan in March as a stand-alone bill to bring relief to family farmers and ranchers who suffered from weather-related disasters and skyrocketing energy prices. Dorgan included the package as an amendment in the emergency Supplemental Appropriations bill that will now go to the conference committee.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 