SEN. DORGAN ANNOUNCES NATIONAL LABORATORY DIRECTORS TO ADDRESS GREAT PLAINS ENERGY EXPO
  U.S. Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND) announced Thursday that the directors of three of the nation's top federal energy laboratories will take part in the Great Plains Energy Expo October 29 and 30 in Bismarck. 
   The U.S. Department of Energy's national laboratories are seen as the premier research institutions in the country, regularly producing ground-breaking work that sets the standard in all fields of energy and science research. Dorgan invited the heads of three of the energy-focused laboratories to take part in the Energy Expo's discussion of our country's energy future and North Dakota's role in that future.
   Dr. Dan Arvizu, Director of the National Renewable Energy Laboratory, will speak about his lab's focus on renewable energy sources such as wind, hydrogen and biofuels. Vice Admiral John J. Grossenbacher, Director of the Idaho National Lab, will address his facility's focus on energy security and nuclear power. And Director Carl Bauer will speak about his National Energy Technology Laboratory, which is devoted to finding new technologies to use fossil fuels in cleaner, more efficient ways.
   The directors' visit is part of Dorgan's ongoing effort to partner North Dakota's research institutions with the national laboratories. 
   "This visit from the directors of three of our top energy labs is an opportunity to showcase North Dakota's energy resources and research institutions," Dorgan said. "They will add an important and authoritative voice to our discussion of North Dakota's energy future. But their visit will also allow us to explore the possibility of partnerships that will bring more high-tech research and energy development to North Dakota."
   The Great Plains Energy Expo will be held at the Bismarck Civic Center. For more information or to register, call 1-800-852-5685 or visit http://www.bismarckstate.edu/gpee.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 