SEN. DORGAN PUSHES BILL TO PROTECT 'CAPTIVE' RAILROAD SHIPPERS
  U.S. Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND) urged a U.S. House committee Tuesday to reform the pricing and regulatory system that currently allows railroads to over price rail freight shippers when there is little or no competition along the route. Those "captive shippers," primarily in rural areas, are being over-charged by "billions of dollars" and the government agency which is supposed to protect them is practically "dead from the neck up," Dorgan said.  
   In testimony before the U.S. House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, Dorgan pushed for action on legislation he has co-sponsored to protect rail customers from exorbitant rates and prohibit railroads from denying their customers the benefits of competition. That legislation includes two bills, the Railroad Competition and Service Improvement Act of 2007, and the Railroad Antitrust Enforcement Act of 2007. 
   Without competition, and without effective government action by the Surface Transportation Board (STB), which is supposed to oversee railroad pricing and service practices, railroads have been free to provide "shoddy" service and charge "outrageous rates," Dorgan said. 
   North Dakota shippers, he noted are frequent victims of "exorbitant" rates and are often required to wait weeks for needed rail cars. Once the cars arrive, the shippers are often required to turn them around immediately or face a hefty surcharge. He told a story of a North Dakota farmer who explained to him that the railroads made him truck his grain 200 miles east for loading on a train, only for that train to move west right past his farm and normal delivery elevator. This was what he had to do to get a cheaper rate. 
   Dorgan cited experiences of North Dakota rural grain elevators and Basin Electric to document examples of unfair pricing and unacceptable service. He also cited a study by the American Chemistry Council report which found that, nationally, railroad carriers over-charged "captive shippers" $6.4 billion in fuel surcharges alone, from 2003 - 2007. They collected $11.66 billion in fuel surcharges, supposedly to pay for an actual increase in fuel costs of less than half that total, $5.26 billion. The Surface Transportation Board declared the fuel surcharges an "unreasonable practice" but didn't order any refunds. 
   Dorgan's legislation would reform the Surface Transportation Board's role in policing pricing practices. He said the current system is "stacked against the shipper from the start" and that many shippers no longer even bother to file a complaint, because a ruling in favor of the railroads is so certain, no matter what the facts. Even the non-partisan Government Accountability Office (GAO) concluded that the STB's customer protections are currently "inaccessible" to rail shippers, Dorgan noted. 
   S. 953, legislation introduced by Senator Rockefeller and Senator Dorgan, would put in place a new, workable rate challenge process for "captive shippers" who are being over charged. It would also empower the STB to proactively suspend and investigate unreasonable rail charges and service levels, rather than wait for a complaint to be filed. 
   It also clarifies the obligation of railroads serving customers in areas without competition, and directs the STB to enforce that obligation.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 