CONFERENCE COMMITTEE PASSES LANDMARK ENERGY BILL, SEN. DORGAN ANNOUNCES
  The comprehensive energy bill passed by the House-Senate Energy Conference Committee last night could produce a huge economic boon for the growing North Dakota energy sector, Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND), a member of the committee, said Tuesday.  
   Among the major accomplishments in the bill are several provisions that support the expansion of all of North Dakota's energy sources, including coal, oil, natural gas, wind, ethanol and hydrogen. The bill includes Dorgan's plan to invest aggressively in hydrogen-powered transportation. It also includes a "Renewable Fuels Standard," which calls for refiners to use at least 7.5 billion gallons of ethanol annually in their gasoline blends by 2012. 
   As a member of the conference committee, Dorgan was charged with working with other negotiators from the House and Senate to hammer out differences in the two bills. Dorgan said he was pleased with the overall result, but he was extremely disappointed that some House negotiators managed to strip provisions that would have significantly reduced the nation's dependence on foreign oil. 
   The text of Dorgan's statement follows: 
   TEXT OF STATEMENT BY U.S. SENATOR BYRON DORGAN
   July 26, 2005
   This energy bill has the potential to be a huge boon for a number of energy industries in North Dakota. As a member of the Senate Energy Committee, I have worked on getting an energy bill a long time. We need to be forward- looking in how we approach our nation's energy future. That's why I'm so happy to have gotten my hydrogen and ethanol provisions into this final bill. 
   I am disappointed, however, that the House majority stripped some of the provisions from the bill that would have gone further in reducing our dangerous dependence on foreign oil. I believe it is critical from a homeland security standpoint to do more - not less - to end that addiction to foreign oil. 
   So although the final bill does not go as far as I would like in removing that dependence, it is a huge step forward for the nation and for North Dakota.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 