SEN. DORGAN ANNOUNCES ROUNDTABLE TO CONNECT NORTH DAKOTA BUSINESSES, FEDERAL CONTRACTORS
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) announced Wednesday he will co-host an Information Technology Procurement Roundtable, along with the Information Technology Council of North Dakota and the North Dakota Information Technology Department, August 14 and 15 in Fargo. The roundtable will help connect federal agencies and contractors with small North Dakota businesses who are well-suited to partner with them for government contracts. 
   Dorgan will arrange to have representatives from federal contractors such as Booz Allen Hamilton, Lockheed Martin and Northrop Grumman to Fargo meet with North Dakota businesses. The Department of Homeland Security also will present information technology contracting opportunities.
   The roundtable is part of an ongoing effort by Dorgan to help North Dakota businesses secure government contracting work. Last year, Dorgan organized an IT Consortium in Washington, D.C., to connect North Dakota businesses with contractors and federal agencies. The event helped pave the way for a partnership between Fargo-based Noridian Administrative Services, Mandaree Enterprise Corp. and others to win a $97.4 million contract to process Medicare claims.
   "Our state is known for its talented, energetic workforce, and improvements in information technology mean our state can better compete for federal contracting opportunities," Dorgan said. "These meetings have been very successful in the past in fostering relationships that lead to opportunities for our small businesses. I'm excited to see the partnerships that come out of this roundtable."
   "The Information Technology Procurement Roundtable will be a valuable resource for small North Dakota companies," said Gary Inman, President of the ITCND. "We are proud to host this event with Senator Dorgan to help bring new and exciting opportunities to the state's information technology businesses."
   For more information or to take part in the Information Technology Procurement Roundtable, contact the Information Technology Council of North Dakota at 701-355-4458 or visit www.itcnd.org.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 