ENERGY CONFEREES VOTE TO REQUIRE NEW STUDY OF PROPOSED UNOCAL SALE TO CHINA
  A proposal by Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) and Rep. Richard Pombo (R-11th CA) to require a lengthy review by the Departments of Energy, Defense and Homeland Security of the possible sale of U.S. energy company Unocal to China was approved by a House-Senate conference committee Monday night.  
   Dorgan and Pombo proposed the study to look into the question of how America's national security with regard to energy would be impacted by the sale of a major U.S. energy company to a Chinese oil company, CNOOC. China's demand for energy is growing dramatically. Unocal has 1.7 billion barrel equivalents in oil and gas reserves. 
   "Oil is a strategic resource and we need to know how the sale of a major U.S. energy asset to a Chinese government-controlled company will impact our own energy security and our national security," Dorgan said. 
   The proposal, as modified by the conference committee, requires a 120 day review by the Departments of Energy, Defense and Homeland Security of the sale and its potential impact on U.S. energy and national security. A separate review by the Treasury Department, required by current U.S. law, could not conclude until 21 days after the study approved by the conference committee is finished. That's to ensure that Treasury's review has the benefit of the findings of the Energy, Defense and Homeland Security Departments review. 
   The study goes beyond the specific Unocal-CNOOC proposed sale and would look into the impact of China acquiring any major U.S. energy asset. 
   In addition to his energy and national security concerns, Dorgan also objects to the proposed sale of Unocal to CNOOC on reciprocal trade grounds. He notes China would not allow any American company, and certainly not the American government, to buy a Chinese energy company. "If they prevent us from buying one of their energy companies, why should we sell them one of ours, especially when oil and gas are such strategic resources?" Dorgan said.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 