SEN. DORGAN'S PLAN TO DEVELOP HYDROGEN FUEL CELLS, AUTOS, FUELING STATIONS APPROVED BY COMMITTEE, NOW HEADS TO FULL SENATE
  The comprehensive energy bill approved by the U.S. Senate Energy Committee Thursday includes a provision authored by Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) which would take the nation toward much greater energy security, and spur development of whole new industries through an all out, Apollo-like program to develop hydrogen-powered fuel cell vehicles and the infrastructure to support them. The plan will help free the U.S. from what Dorgan described as our "dangerous dependence" on imported oil by developing new cars that run on hydrogen - one of the Earth's most abundant elements - and emit only water.  
   With the approval of the Energy Committee, the legislation now moves to the full U.S. Senate, where Dorgan said prospects look good. "It's in the Energy bill as reported by the Committee, and the President is on board supporting the idea," Dorgan said. "I think we're on track for a big victory that will be very important for our country." 
   The aggressive development project would authorize investment of $3.75 billion over the next five years for research, development and demonstration programs with private industry to develop hydrogen fuel cells, hydrogen powered automobiles, and a nation-wide fueling infrastructure. 
   The legislation sets specific timelines and goals for the effort: 100,000 hydrogen-fueled vehicles on the road in the United States by 2010, and 2.5 million of them by 2020, along with the required fueling infrastructure. 
   President George W. Bush endorsed the plan, in concept, in his 2003 State of the Union Address, shortly after Dorgan first proposed the plan. 
   The transportation sector currently consumes by far the most energy of all sectors of the U.S. economy, Dorgan said, and will continue to have the greatest growth in demand in future years. "The transportation sector is where we must make major improvements if we are to make a serious dent in our dependence on foreign oil," Dorgan said.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 