SEN. DORGAN, GOV. HOEVEN TO HOST ACTION SUMMIT ON RENEWABLE ENERGY IN BISMARCK
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) and North Dakota Gov. John Hoeven announced Friday they will host an Action Summit June 11-12 in Bismarck to examine ways the federal energy bill and state energy incentives are promoting new investments in major projects and can further spur the state's growing renewable energy industry. 
   The federal energy bill passed by Congress last year includes a number of provisions that can be harnessed to develop renewable energy projects in North Dakota, said Dorgan, who added many of the provisions to the bill. Governor Hoeven, working with the state Legislature over the past five years, has established substantial tax, finance, production and marketing incentives that are generating renewable energy development and investment in North Dakota.
   Hoeven and Dorgan said the Action Summit will bring together leaders from around the state and the nation interested in the development of ethanol, biodiesel, wind power, and other forms of renewable energy. Nationally recognized speakers from the government and private sector will facilitate a discussion on how North Dakota can leverage the provisions in the energy bill and state renewable energy incentives to spur economic development.
   "North Dakota is blessed with an abundant and diverse supply of energy resources, and we are well-placed to play a significant role as we move this country away from our dependence on foreign sources of energy," said Dorgan, a member of the Senate Energy Committee. "I helped write the federal energy bill that passed Congress last year, and I hope this Action Summit can serve as a starting point to help North Dakota make the most of the provisions in the bill to spur further development of our renewable energy industry and help move our country toward energy independence."
   "With recent announcements for four new ethanol plants, including a $350 million energy park, a biodiesel facility and five new wind farms, North Dakota has seen real and significant progress in the field of renewable energy development," Hoeven said. "Our sustained effort over the past few years to establish strong state incentives for both renewable and traditional energy, and our commitment to building one of the best business environments in America, is getting results. We will continue to work with industry at events like this and on a continued basis to achieve further growth in the future."
   The Action Summit is co-hosted by the Bismarck-Mandan Development Association, the Bismarck-Mandan Chamber of Commerce, Bismarck State College, and Kadrmas, Lee and Jackson.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 