SENATE SUBCOMMITTEE HOLDS HEARING IN BISMARCK TO PROBE NORTH DAKOTA FUEL SHORTAGES
  U.S. Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND) convened a field hearing of the U.S. Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development in Bismarck Tuesday to find out why gasoline and diesel fuel shortages have hit North Dakota, causing some of the highest fuel prices in the nation. The subcommittee's ultimate goal is to learn how such regional shortages can be prevented. 
   Dorgan chairs the subcommittee and presided at the hearing, which was held at Bismarck State College.
   "We need to understand why this is happening and prevent it from occurring again," Dorgan said. "In a rural state like ours, where frequent travel over long distances is common, high prices at the pump take a heavy toll. Our family farmers need to be able to access gasoline or diesel when they need it, and at an affordable price. When those prices are near the top nationally, they are not only painful but also are a serious drag on our regional economy. When shortages hit right at harvest time, when the need for fuel is most urgent, the impact on the regional economy can be devastating. "
   Dorgan invited officials from the Department of Energy, the major refineries that supply North Dakota with fuel, regional pipeline companies and North and South Dakota petroleum marketing associations to testify at the hearing. 
   Among those who appeared before the panel were Dr. Howard Gruenspecht, Deputy Administrator, U.S. Department of Energy, Energy Information Administration; Leon Westbrock, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, CHS, Inc.; Kim Penner, Senior Vice President of Light Products, Flint Hills Resources; Bruce Heine, Director Government and Media Affairs, Magellan Midstream Partners; Mike Rud, President, North Dakota Retail Petroleum Marketers Association; and Dawna Leitzke, Executive Director, South Dakota Petroleum and Propane Marketers Association.
   North Dakota consumes about 25,000 barrels of refined gasoline products a day and about 18,000 barrels of diesel fuel per day. Earlier this summer, gasoline and diesel fuel were both in short supply in the state. The subcommittee heard Tuesday that the gasoline shortage in North Dakota has eased, but shortages of diesel fuel continue during harvest season.
   Dorgan said the subcommittee wanted to know why a state like North Dakota would experience such shortages - and the high prices that result - when other states outside the region don't appear to have those problems. 
   "If there are structural changes that need to be made, let's identify them. If policy changes are needed to prevent this from happening again, then let's learn what policies should change. Continuing to face these shortages and asking North Dakotans to pay the resulting high prices as we go forward simply isn't an option I am willing to accept," Dorgan said.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 