SEN. DORGAN ANNOUNCES VENTURE CAPITAL SUMMIT TO PROMOTE COMMERCIALIZATION OF NORTH DAKOTA TECHNOLOGIES
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) announced Tuesday that he will organize a Venture Capital Summit in February to attract potential investors to North Dakota to discover high-tech investment opportunities and "take the Red River Valley Research Corridor to the next level."  
   Dorgan said he will invite venture capitalists and other potential investors and to meet with local businessmen, entrepreneurs and community leaders. 
   "The Red River Valley Research Corridor is already a dynamic engine for jobs and economic growth, bringing high technology and related industries to North Dakota," Dorgan said. "We've attracted businesses and are turning the region into a hub of high-tech research, training and manufacturing. This Venture Capital Summit will take the Research Corridor to the next level: attracting outside capital to promote the commercialization of the technologies that are being developed in the region." 
   Dorgan has asked Delore Zimmerman, the Director of the Red River Research Corridor Coordinating Center, to chair a Commercialization Opportunity Review Committee that will inventory and review commercialization concepts that are now seeking venture capital or which may seek venture capital during the next three years. The committee will select the most promising ideas and highlight them for special consideration at the action summit. 
   Three leading entrepreneurs - Al Joseph, the Chairman of ISR Technologies; Bruce McWilliams, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Tessera Technologies; and Stav Prodromou, President of Alien Technology - have agreed to join the committee. Dorgan said he will announce other members later. 
   "I am immensely proud of what has been accomplished so far," Dorgan said. "Our researchers are doing valuable work for the federal government in many high-tech fields, and leading companies have chosen the Red River Valley to embark on their high-tech research. It's now time for the next step." 
   Dorgan said that anyone who is interested in having their technology-based commercialization idea highlighted at the February action summit should send a short one- or two-paragraph abstract of their idea and business plan to: 
   Delore Zimmerman
  Research Corridor Coordinating Center
  100 North Third Street
  Grand Forks, North Dakota 58203
   More information will be available in the next few days at the website of the Research Corridor Coordinating Center - www.theresearchcorridor.com.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Sanjay Talwani, 202/224-2551.
 
 