SEN. DORGAN ANNOUNCES MAJOR HURDLE CLEARED FOR DEFENSE BILL INCLUDING $42 MILLION FOR FARGO-AREA PROJECTS
  An appropriations bill that includes more than $42 million for high-tech research and development in the Fargo area cleared a major hurdle when it was approved by a House-Senate conference committee, Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) announced.
   Dorgan, a member of the conference committee, said the House and Senate have agreed on a version of the Fiscal Year 2007 Defense Appropriations bill that invests significantly in projects in the Fargo area that will help the modernize and streamline the U.S. military. The bill includes nearly $62 million for high-tech projects across North Dakota. 
   Senator Dorgan also credited Senator Kent Conrad (D-ND) and Congressman Earl Pomeroy (D-ND) for their work in helping move the bill through Congress.
   "The reputation of Fargo, Grand Forks and the Red River Valley Research Corridor as a center of cutting-edge research is growing, and this bill includes funding that will further boost our high-tech sector and help bolster our nation's security," Dorgan said.
   The bill goes this week to the full House, then the full Senate, for final approval.
   Attached is a list of projects in the bill for NDSU and the Fargo area.
   $3.25 million to connect North Dakota to the Northern Tier Network, which is part of the nation's next-generation network infrastructure. This funding will significantly increase the region's competitiveness and economic development by providing NDSU, UND and other institutions and businesses in North Dakota network connections that are several times better than currently available.
   $24 million for NDSU's Center for Nanoscale Science and Engineering (CNSE) to complete development of several cutting-edge wireless electronics systems in collaboration with the Defense MicroElectronics Activity and several leading electronics firms. The programs have already demonstrated a number of wireless components that are several times smaller and cheaper that what the military now deploys, but which provide significantly better performance. The funds will also be used to complete equipping CNSE with high-tech equipment and technologies so it can design and produce highly miniaturized electronics for the U.S. military.
   $7 million for NDSU to develop advanced, environmentally friendly fouling- and corrosion- control coatings for the U.S. Navy. The project has the potential to save the U.S. Navy hundreds of millions of dollars per year in hull-cleaning, maintenance and fuel costs. This project is also providing the NDSU's Center for Nanoscale Science and Engineering with a revolutionary proprietary "discovery" technology that enables the school to analyze thousands of candidate coatings up to 10 to 100 times faster than is possible elsewhere.
   $3.9 million for NDSU's Department of Polymers and Coatings to continue developing advanced anti-corrosion coatings for the Army and Air Force. All the projects aim to extend the service life of military vehicles by designing and testing new, environmentally friendly coatings with improved performance and durability. Some of the research will be a joint effort with Turtle Mountain Manufacturing, a Native-American owned manufacturer of trailers. The project will help eliminate $150 million per year in costs that stem from dealing with hazardous wastes associated with painting, stripping and repainting aircraft.
   $1.65 million for Fargo-based Aldevron LLC to continue development of its innovative vaccine testing technology for use by the Pentagon in preventing some of the world's most deadly diseases. The company will use its ParalleleVax technology to develop new vaccines against targets of high priority to the Pentagon, such as Ebola, the Marburg virus and the Foot and Mouth virus.
   $1.3 million for Pedigree Technologies of Fargo to develop a wireless system for managing and integrating multiple remote intrusion and surveillance sensor networks. This will significantly improve the ability to monitor borders and remote facilities with limited personnel.
   $1.3 million for Space Age Synthetics of Fargo to demonstrate whether the performance of the Spartan SCOUT - an unmanned Navy patrol vessel used to detect and intercept unconventional threats to American vessels - can be improved by reducing the vessel's weight by using components made from the company's composite materials.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 