SEN. DORGAN ANNOUNCES MORE THAN $41 MILLION IN DEFENSE SPENDING FOR NORTH DAKOTA STATE UNIVERSITY RESEARCH PROJECTS
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) announced today the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee has approved more than $41 million in research funds designated for high-tech projects involving North Dakota State University (NDSU) and several leading businesses.  
   The projects will propel new and more advanced research related to Dorgan's Red River Valley Research Corridor. Dorgan created the Research Corridor in 2002 using his seat on the Senate Appropriations Committee to direct federal funds toward research at North Dakota's universities, and to stimulate commercial activity and high-paying jobs based on that research. 
   Today's announcement extends that concept in a number of defense-related areas. For example, NDSU, along with its industry partners will receive $20 million to continue work on an Ultra-low Power Battlefield Sensor System. The project involves thousands of low-cost microsensors the U.S. Army could use for surveillance during wartime, improving the awareness of potential threats and the defense of high-value targets. The project already has created microsensors that are a fraction of the size and cost of existing systems. 
   The bill also includes $9 million for NDSU and its industrial partners to develop a prototype covert surveillance system that would collect and transmit intelligence information from hidden sensors. There is also $8 million in the bill for NDSU further develop its Advanced Fouling and Corrosion Control Coatings technology--an environmentally friendly coating that protects ships against corrosion. The project has the potential to save the U.S. Navy hundreds of millions of dollars per year in maintenance and fuels costs, and involves the world's most advanced technology of its kind. 
   "NDSU and the companies involved in the Red River Valley Research Corridor will get a huge boost from today's bill," Dorgan said. "These federal funds will allow NDSU to expand the research and development relationships it has built with some of America's most innovative high-tech companies, such as the Crane Aerospace and Electronics, Alien Technology, Tessera Technologies, and Symyx Technologies. We are feeding NDSU's research capabilities and developing them in a way that results in some of the most advanced technology projects in the world. The work being done as a result of these funds is remarkable. And by continuing to fund them, we will continue to see only more and more economic opportunity in the region." "Thanks to Senator Dorgan's efforts, federal appropriations will continue NDSU researchers' efforts in high-technology areas ranging from polymers and coatings to battlefield sensors," said NDSU President Joseph A. Chapman. "University research activities are occurring within the Red River Valley 
   Research Corridor, and clearly spur development and contribute to the economic well-being of our state and region. The success of the NDSU Research and Technology Park is a great example of the good things that can happen, with development of facilities for Phoenix International, Alien Technology Corp., a hotel, facilities for NDSU researchers and a planned business incubator." 
   Below is a complete list of NDSU-related projects included in the bill: 
   * Ultra-low Power Battlefield Sensor System $20,000,000
   This project involves thousands of low-cost microsensors the U.S. Army could use for communication during wartime, improving the awareness of potential threats and the defense of high-value targets. The project has created microsensors that are a fraction of the size and cost of existing systems. 
   * Chameleon Miniaturized Wireless System $9,000,000
   This is a joint project between NDSU, Crane Aerospace and Electronics and Tessera Technologies to develop a prototype covert surveillance system that would collect and transmit intelligence information from hidden sensors. The funds will complete the miniaturization of the Chameleon sensors, integrate the hardware and software elements, and allow demonstrations of the system. 
   * Advanced Fouling and Corrosion Control Coatings $8,000,000
   NDSU will further develop its Advanced Fouling and Corrosion Control Coatings technology--an environmentally friendly coating that protects ships against corrosion. The project has the potential to save the U.S. Navy hundreds of millions of dollars per year in maintenance and fuels costs by allowing the Navy to continue using foreign ports that are setting prohibitions against ships with conventional coatings that harm the environment. This project uses Symyx Technologies' revolutionary "discovery" technology that enables the school to analyze thousands of candidate coatings up to 10-100 times faster than is possible elsewhere. 
   * Corrosion Protection of Aluminum Alloys Used in Aircraft $2,000,000
   This project involves NDSU and the U.S. Air Force exploring ways to limit corrosion on its aging aircraft. The funding continues research into environmentally-friendly and longer-living anti-corrosion coatings. 
   * Durable Hybrid Coatings for Aircraft Systems $1,000,000
   This project funds continued development of a multi-functional, durable coating system to protect aircraft against weathering and corrosion. 
   * Advanced Coating Systems for Ground-based Military Vehicles 1,625,000
   This project is seeking a way to extend the service life of military vehicles by designing and testing new, environmentally-friendly coatings with improved performance and durability. The research will be a joint effort of the Polymers and Coating Department at NDSU and Turtle Mountain Manufacturing, a Native-American owned manufacturer of trailers.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 