DELEGATION ANNOUNCES VETERANS CLINICS IN WILLISTON, DICKINSON, JAMESTOWN ARE CLOSE TO OPENING
  Sens. Byron Dorgan and Kent Conrad and Rep. Earl Pomeroy announced Tuesday that the new veterans' outpatient clinics in Williston, Dickinson and Jamestown are in the final stages of planning and should open later this fall.  
   Aliron International has been hired by the VA to operate the Williston clinic, which will be located in the Fairlight Medical Center Imaging Building, which is in the old Plainsman Hotel. VA officials say they expect the new facility to open to veterans within sixty days, and will be open Monday through Friday, from 8:00 AM to 4:30 PM. "Our veterans deserve to be provided with easy access to health care," stated the delegation in a joint statement. "Unfortunately, many of North Dakota's veterans are forced to drive hundreds of miles to get the vital health care they need. These new clinics will dramatically cut down on the travel time and ensure veterans receive the care they need and earned."
   The VA is also close to completing negotiations to set up the Jamestown and Dickinson clinics, which VA officials also expect to be operating by the end of November.
   Currently, the VA manages community outpatient clinics only in Grafton, Minot and Bismarck. The Capital Assessment Realignment for Enhanced Services Commission recommended in 2004 that five new veterans' health clinics be opened in the state of North Dakota, but the new facilities were delayed because of funding shortfalls in the VA's budget.
   The delegation has had several meetings with senior VA officials to press them to open these three clinics. Additional clinics in Devils Lake and at the Grand Forks Air Force Base are expected to open by the fall of 2007.
   The new North Dakota clinics could dramatically reduce driving distances and wait times for veterans trying to access health care. Only 37 percent of the veterans residing in North Dakota are currently within the one-hour driving time guideline for primary care and hospital care. There are almost 60,000 veterans in North Dakota.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 