SEN. DORGAN SECURES $13 MILLION IN NEW RESEARCH FOR UNIVERSITY OF NORTH DAKOTA, FORT TOTTEN
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) said Monday he has secured more than $13 million in funding for research, development and demonstration work, and prototype parts manufacturing for the University of North Dakota (UND) in Grand Forks and Sioux Manufacturing in Fort Totten.  
   The funds were approved Monday by the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, of which Dorgan is a member. The subcommittee approved $9 million for research at UND, and $4 million for development and manufacture of prototype parts and armor from composite materials by Sioux Manufacturing at Fort Totten. 
   "Once again, the Senate is expressing its confidence in the world-class work being done in North Dakota by our university researchers and by our manufacturers," Dorgan said. "This work will make our country stronger, and boost North Dakota's economy at the same time. It adds to the growing evidence that the Research Corridor concept is not only an idea that can work, but that is already succeeding." 
   The projects in this region funded by the bill include: 
   * Engineered Surfaces for Weapons Systems' Life Extension $5,000,000 UND will work with Alion Science and Technology, Inc. to develop advanced methods for manufacturing new and replacement parts for Army helicopters and other vehicles. The goal is to increase the service life of those parts by 100-300 percent. 
   * Air Battle Captain
  $2,000,000
   The Helicopter Flight Training Program at UND will train a full-time compliment of 31 Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC) cadets and summer training for 40 West Point cadets.
   * Battlefield Production of Hydrogen for Fuel Cell Vehicles
  $2,000,000
   This project will develop a mobile system to generate high-pressure hydrogen to be produced and used in the field to power generators and fuel cell vehicles. It also will demonstrate the practicality of using such a system at a major cold-climate U.S. Air Force base.
   * CAV Technology Transition
  $4,000,000
   The mission of this project, to be performed by Sioux Manufacturing in Fort Totten, is to develop new, high quality armored parts and components for military vehicles, and to develop new manufacturing methods to ensure that those parts can be mass produced cheaply and efficiently. The project has already met with considerable success. So far, Sioux Manufacturing has designed, manufactured and tested vehicle hoods that are 40 percent lighter, and increased the payload carrying ability of a military trailer by 40 percent, among other achievements.
   The legislation next goes to the full Senate Appropriations Committee for consideration.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 