SEN. DORGAN ANNOUNCES MAJOR HURDLE CLEARED FOR DEFENSE BILL INCLUDING MORE THAN $16 MILLION FOR UNIVERSITY OF NORTH DAKOTA PROJECTS
  An appropriations bill that includes more than $16 million for programs at the University of North Dakota (UND) cleared a major hurdle when it was approved by a House-Senate conference committee, Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) announced Tuesday.
   Dorgan, a member of the conference committee, said the House and Senate have agreed on a version of the Fiscal Year 2007 Defense Appropriations bill that invests significantly in UND programs that will help the modernize and streamline the U.S. military. Altogether, the bill includes nearly $62 million for high-tech projects across North Dakota. 
   Senator Dorgan also credited Senator Kent Conrad (D-ND) and Congressman Earl Pomeroy (D-ND) for their work in helping move the bill through Congress.
   "The reputation of Fargo, Grand Forks and the Red River Valley Research Corridor as a center of cutting-edge research is growing, and this bill includes funding that will further boost our high-tech sector and help bolster our nation's security," Dorgan said.
   The bill goes next to the full House, then the full Senate, for final approval.
   Attached is a list of projects in the bill for UND.
   Engineered Surfaces for Weapons Systems' Life Extension
  $4.25 million
  UND will continue working with Alion Science and Technology, Inc, a leading Defense contractor, to develop advanced methods for manufacturing new and replacement parts for Army helicopters and other vehicles. The goal is to increase the service life of those parts by 100 to 300 percent.
   Air Battle Captain
  $1.3 million
   This funding will be used to continue the Army Helicopter Flight Training Program at UND, which trains Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC) cadets during the academic year and West Point cadets during the summer.
   Web-based Training for Army First Responders
  $1.3 million
   UND will work with a commercial firm to adapt a web-based interactive system to help provide emergency response training to military first responders and medical personnel.
   Center of Excellence for Defense UAV Education
  $3 million
  This funding will be used by the new Defense Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) Center of Excellence at the University of North Dakota. The Center of Excellence will work on issues critical to the Pentagon, such as integrating UAVs into the national airspace system and operating UAVs in cold weather. The Center of Excellence will complement the emerging UAV mission at the nearby Grand Forks Air Force Base. The Defense Center of Excellence was established with funds Senator Dorgan added to the FY 2006 Defense budget.
   Advanced Tactical Fuels for the U.S. Military
  $3.25 million
   Under this project, UND's Energy and Environmental Research Center (EERC) to continue an effort to develop a system to generate high-pressure hydrogen from jet fuel and dispense it in the field to fuel-cell powered systems. These funds will enable the EERC to expand the project to include developing jet fuel and other types of fuel from coal and biomass.
   Northern Tier Network
  $3.25 million
   This funding will significantly increase the region's competitiveness and promote economic development by linking UND, NDSU and other institutions and businesses in North Dakota to the next generation network infrastructure. By providing a connection several times better than currently available in North Dakota, the Northern Tier Network will improve the region's ability to compete for research funding and business collaborations.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 