SEN. DORGAN INTRODUCES BILL TO EASE RAIL RATE BURDENS FACING 'CAPTIVE SHIPPERS'
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND), along with Sens. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.) and Jay Rockefeller (D-WV), introduced a bipartisan bill Wednesday to combat monopolistic practices facing agriculture producers and manufacturers that ship their product via rail and are suffering from exorbitant rail rates.  
   The Senators are introducing the Railroad Competition Act of 2005 to help limit the impact of railroad monopolies on captive shippers-rail customers who don't have access to rail competition. Since the railroad industry was partially deregulated in 1980, the industry has consolidated from over 40 major railroads to seven, four of which handle 90% of the nation's rail traffic. "Like so many industries, the railroad industry has consolidated in recent years," Dorgan said. "The end result is that rail monopolies engage in price-gouging practices that hurt both shippers and consumers," Dorgan said. "My hope is that this bill brings some much-needed competition to the marketplace, and allows farmers and others who need to move their product some relief from the exorbitant rail rates they're paying today." 
   The bill would clarify existing laws and direct the Surface Transportation Board to ensure effective competition among rail carriers at origins and destinations; maintain reasonable rates in the absence of effective competition; and maintain consistent and efficient rail transportation service for rail shippers, including the timely provision of cars. The bill also would establish a 'final offer' arbitration of rail rate disputes between shippers and the railroad companies. In addition, the legislation also increases ten-fold the availability of funds for railroad infrastructure investment. 
   "Legislation is surely necessary to rebalance the interests of shippers and railroads, and we're happy to see that Senator Dorgan is again one of the leading proponents of finally getting something done," said Steve Strege, executive vice president of the North Dakota Grain Dealers Association. 
   In addition to Burns and Rockefeller, other cosponsors of the bill include Senators Larry Craig (R-ID), Mark Dayton (D-MN), David Vitter (R-LA), John Thune (R-SD), Norm Coleman (R-MN), Tim Johnson (D-SD) and Max Baucus (D-MT). 
   Dorgan is a member of the Senate Commerce Surface Transportation and Merchant Marine Subcommittee.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 