RED RIVER VALLEY RESEARCH CORRIDOR GROWS WITH FUNDING FOR FARGO FIRM'S BIODEFENSE PROJECT
  A Fargo biotechnology firm, Aldevron, will conduct a $2.45 million research and development project for the Department of Defense, company officials and Sen. Byron Dorgan announced Friday.  
   Michael Chambers, Aldevron founder and CEO, said the firm will be involved with research in the fight against HIV, and possible bio-terror agents such as Ebola and Botulinum. The firm's unique and proprietary Genetic Immunization and Antibody (GIA) platform allows testing of possible vaccines at a much faster rate and at much lower cost than traditional methods. The new funding will allow Aldevron to expand its testing ability and develop additional potential vaccines. 
   Chambers said U.S. Senator Byron Dorgan connected the company with several key officials in the Department of Defense and the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and secured funding for the project as a member of the joint House-Senate Conference Committee that wrote the final version of the Defense Appropriations Bill, which included the $2.45 million funding for the project. 
   "This project is a major development for our company and another big step for the Red River Valley Research Corridor and North Dakota's high-tech economy," Chambers said Friday. "We are very grateful for Senator Dorgan's successful work and the confidence he has shown in us, and in North Dakota's research capabilities in general as he continues to build on his idea to create a Research Corridor." 
   "Aldevron is a home-grown Fargo company with a new technology the nation needs," Dorgan said. "This contract is a big step for Aldevron, and I congratulate them. It's also very good for North Dakota. It will provide new, high-tech jobs in North Dakota, and add significantly to North Dakota's status as a growing center for some of the most important advanced research and manufacturing being done today." 
   The company was founded in 1998 by two North Dakota State University graduates, Michael Chambers and John Ballantyne. They first approached Dorgan in 2003 for help in funding a new North Dakota Vaccine Initiative. Since then, Dorgan has arranged meetings between the company and the director of the NIH's National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) and the top Defense Department official for nuclear, chemical and biological defense programs to help them understand Aldevron's advanced technology, and to win their support for Aldevron to work on the project. 
   "North Dakota's national reputation as an emerging center of high-tech research, manufacturing, and opportunity is growing," said Robert Whalen, Director of Infectious Diseases at Maxygen, a leading Silicon Valley biotechnology company that is partnering with Aldevron on the project. "The research corridor Senator Dorgan is working to build in North Dakota has certainly caught our attention in Silicon Valley. As this effort continues to grow, and as more work like this comes on line in North Dakota, you'll see more high-tech firms establishing a presence here."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 