SEN. DORGAN CHAIRS HEARING ON MEDICARE DRUG BENEFIT COMPLEXITIES
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND), Chairman of the Senate Democratic Policy Committee, said Monday at a hearing on the new Medicare prescription drug benefit that the myriad problems with the program should first be addressed by extending the enrollment deadline to the end of 2006, and then repealing the part of the law that prohibits the government from negotiating lower drug prices. In addition, Sen. Dorgan said the program is "far too complicated and needs to be simplified."  
   Dorgan said he convened the hearing to examine the problems that have plagued the program during its first eight weeks, as well as the challenges likely to emerge over the next several months. 
   "This program is a confusing array of choices upon choices that is discouraging seniors from signing up," Dorgan said. "There are many steps that need to be taken here, and I believe we should start by extending the enrollment deadline to give us more time to work through all of the problems that need to be addressed. I also think it's critical that we allow the government to negotiate for lower priced prescription drugs. That is one of the surest ways to get a handle on the skyrocketing drug prices. Otherwise, the benefit won't be beneficial to anyone but the insurance companies." 
   Among the witnesses to testify at the Capitol Hill hearing was Dave Olig of Southpointe Pharmacy in Fargo. Olig testified about the impact of the program on pharmacists and the burdens they are facing as a result of the complex enrollment process, multitude of drug plans, and the legal restraints on helping their customers. 
   "One of the main problems is that the playing field between pharmacists and the prescription drug plans is not level," Olig said. "Small, community pharmacists have little to no leverage with the plans. The plans are able to set low reimbursement rates and give pharmacists take-it-or-leave-it offers. Pharmacists have to choose whether to lose money or turn away their Medicare patients." 
   Dorgan is the cosponsor of several bills designed to simplify and improve the program. He also has asked the Department of Health and Human Services to send a survey team to the Great Plains states to look into why North Dakota, South Dakota, Wyoming and Montana have some of the lowest enrollment rates in the nation despite their aged populations. He said he has not yet received a response from the Department.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 