SENS. DORGAN, CONRAD, REP. POMEROY FIGHT TO ALLOW MINOT VICTIMS TO PURSUE JUSTICE
  Senators Byron Dorgan and Kent Conrad and Congressman Earl Pomeroy today applauded Congressional approval of legislation that will help victims of the 2002 Minot train derailment to pursue their legal battle against the Canadian Pacific Railway.  
   The legislation, which was approved today as part of a national security bill, clarifies the Federal Railroad Safety Act to allow lawsuits against the railroad.
   "A wrong has been righted here. Victims of this tragedy in Minot will now hopefully be given the opportunity to pursue justice and try to make their lives whole again," Senator Conrad said. 
   "The citizens of Minot should have the right to seek redress from a railroad that caused significant damage to them and their community," Senator Dorgan said. "I don't believe the law was ever intended to prevent victims of a train derailment from arguing their case in court, and this legislation will make sure they have that opportunity."
   "Railroads shouldn't be given blanket immunity at the expense of innocent people," Congressman Pomeroy said. "This legislation is welcome news for the victims of the Minot train derailment, who will finally have their day in court."
   On January 18, 2002, a Canadian Pacific Railway train derailed west of Minot. Five cars of the train exploded, resulting in a massive hazardous chemical spill. Much of the chemical vaporized, forming a toxic cloud that drifted over much of Minot. As a result of the chemical spill, one man died and hundreds were injured. A large number of residents living near the derailment site were forced to evacuate.
   Federal courts have ruled that victims of the derailment could not sue Canadian Pacific because their right was preempted by the Federal Railroad Safety Act of 1970. The North Dakota Congressional delegation fought to clarify the law. They successfully inserted a provision in a national security bill that will help clear the way for victims to collect damages from the Canadian Pacific Railroad.
   The primary purpose of the national security bill was to implement the recommendations from the 9/11 Commission including funding to increase aviation security and improve communications between first responders. The bill will now be sent to President Bush for his signature.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 