SEN. DORGAN PROVIDES $69 MILLION TO CONTINUE CRUCIAL WATER PROJECTS UNDER GARRISON DIVERSION
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) included $69 million in federal funding for the Garrison Diversion project in an appropriations bill written and approved by the Appropriations subcommittee he chairs. Part of this funding will be used to continue construction of the Northwest Area Water Supply (NAWS) project, which provides a reliable water supply to Minot and other rural northwestern communities.
   Dorgan is chairman of the Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee, which approved his "chairman's mark," or draft bill, Tuesday. The bill includes the funding for Garrison Diversion to compensate North Dakota for land lost from the dam's construction and to help construct a number of important water projects in the region.
   Dorgan included $6.2 million for renovation at the Garrison Dam and Power Plant. The bill also includes funding to extend boat ramps and improve docks on Lake Sakakawea while water levels are at near-record lows. 
   "This funding will help bring a safe, reliable supply of water to Minot and other communities in northwestern North Dakota," Dorgan said. "That's an important investment in our infrastructure that will help these communities keep moving forward."
   The bill, which includes a total of more than $124 million for North Dakota energy and water projects, now goes to the full Senate Appropriations Committee for approval. A list of the North Dakota projects in the bill is below.
   EERC COOPERATIVE RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
   $4 million
   This funding will be used by Energy and Environmental Research Center at the University of North Dakota to provide advanced clean coal technology and fossil fuel research.
   UND THERAPEUTIC ANTIBODIES AND VACCINE RESEARCH
   $2.5 million
   This funding will be used for a collaborative project by the University of North Dakota, Mayo Clinic, and Avianax, a Midwest biotechnology firm, to research and develop vaccines and antibodies for disease threats including the Avian Flu and West Nile Virus.
   NATIONAL CENTER FOR HYDROGEN TECHNOLOGY AT EERC
   $3 million
   This funding will allow UND's Energy and Environmental Research Center (EERC) to continue its hydrogen research at the National Center for Hydrogen Technology. Research will expand new technologies to convert coal and other energy sources to hydrogen and develop new innovative methods of storing and transporting hydrogen. In 2004, Senator Dorgan included a provision in an appropriations bill to designate the EERC as the National Center for Hydrogen Technology.
   CENTER FOR BIOMASS UTILIZATION AT UND'S EERC
   $2 million
   This funding will be used for research at the Energy and Environmental Research Center to integrate biomass with fossil fuels in conventional power systems. The research will help develop production of ethanol from cellulosic biomass, advanced methods for biodiesel production and utilization of low-value biodiesel process by-products such as glycerol.
   NATIONAL ENERGY CENTER OF EXCELLENCE AT BSC
   $5.2 million
   This funding provides for Bismarck State College to establish the National Energy Center of Excellence. This funding will provide for the construction of the energy technology training and education facility that will contain a state-of-the-art lab. Course modules will also be developed for the center's nationally recognized energy technology training program.
   NDSU CENTER FOR NANOSCALE ENERGY
   $6 million
   This funding will be used by North Dakota State University to develop new nanomaterials that will help improve energy efficiency and reduce our country's reliance on foreign sources of energy.
   NDSU CENTER FOR HIGH PERFORMANCE COMPUTING
   $8 million
   This funding will be used by North Dakota State University to increase supercomputing power at the Center for High Performance Computing. This computing power will support advanced computation application for science and engineering programs and will provide for advanced networking, modeling and simulation, authentication of users, data mining and database work.
   LAKE SAKAKAWEA RECREATION UPGRADES
   $950,000
   This funding will be used to maintain recreation when Lake Sakakawea is at low levels. The upgrades include extending boat ramps and improving docks around Lake Sakakawea.
   LAKE OAHE RECREATION UPGRADES
   $300,000
   This funding will be used to maintain recreation when Lake Oahe is at low levels. The upgrades include extending boat ramps and improving docks around Lake Oahe.
   ELBOWOODS MEMORIAL HEALTH CENTER
   $3 million
   This funding will be used by the Corps of Engineers in cooperation with the Three Affiliated Tribes and the Indian Health Service to plan and design a new health clinic on Fort Berthold Indian Reservation. The United States made a commitment in 1949 to Three Affiliated Tribes to replace vital infrastructure that was destroyed by flooding caused by the construction of the Garrison Dam and Reservoir.
   RED RIVER OF THE NORTH BASIN STUDY
   $3.55 million
   This funding provides for a feasibility study to protect downtown Fargo and the areas along the Pembina River from future flooding. The study will also look at creating a basin-wide mapping system of the Red River.
   BRECKENRIDGE FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
   $4 million
   The funding will help continue construction of the flood control project in Breckenridge, Minnesota, which is located across the Red River from Wahpeton. Construction on flood defenses for the city of Wahpeton has been stalled until the Breckenridge project can catch up.
   DEVILS LAKE EMERGENCY WATER SOURCE REPLACEMENT
   $6 million
   This funding would help bring a new water supply to the city of Devils Lake, where the current water supply is in jeopardy of being destroyed by the rising Devils Lake covering the water transmission line. Dorgan has secured millions in federal funding and authorizing language to address the Devils Lake flooding problem and worked to reestablish a regional task force to develop recommendations to ensure that steps are taken to mitigate the problems associated with continued flooding in the area.
   GARRISON DIVERSION
   $69 million
   This funding will compensate North Dakota for land lost from the dam's construction and to help in the construction of a number of priority water projects in tribal and non-tribal communities.
   STANDING ROCK INDIAN IRRIGATION
   The bill includes language to authorize the Bureau of Reclamation to provide funding to help complete the development of 2,380 acres on the Standing Rock Indian Reservation as authorized under the Garrison Diversion Unit Reformulation Act. The irrigation systems are used to grow value-added and biomass crops that bring new revenue and add new jobs to the reservation, which has unemployment rates of 25 percent in the summer and up to 65 percent in the winter.
   FARGO-MOORHEAD UPSTREAM SUB-BASIN STUDY
   $250,000
   This funding will be used to evaluate options to reduce flooding and restore aquatic ecosystems in the Fargo-Moorhead Red River Basin upstream.
   HOMME DAM SAFETY
   $235,000
   This funding will be used for safety repairs to remedy significant erosion on embankment at Homme Dam, located in Walsh County near Park River and Grafton, North Dakota.
   GARRISON DAM AND POWER PLANT
   $6.2 million
   This funding will be used to replace the existing turbine runners on all five units with new runners designed to improve reliability and maximize efficiency over a broad range of operating conditions. The Garrison Dam and Power Plant produces clean, non-polluting hydroelectric power generation for the region. On average, it generates annual revenues of about $33.6 million.
   DAKOTA INVESTIGATIONS PROGRAM
   $204,000
   This funding provides local governments and water districts with independent resource analysis to better manage water resources. Assessments will be conducted for the Willow Creek watershed, Jamestown Reservoir and the Heart Butte Unit watershed.
   MOSQUITO CONTROL
   $200,000
   This funding will provide mosquito control in the city of Williston and the Trenton Indian Service Area, where a newly built levee has caused a rise in the mosquito population. Mosquito control will include controlling water levels behind the levee to decrease the mosquito habitat and applying pesticides during breeding periods.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 