INDIAN AFFAIRS COMMITTEE PASSES HEALTH CARE IMPROVEMENT ACT INCLUDING TEEN SUICIDE AMENDMENT, SEN. DORGAN ANNOUNCES
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND), Vice Chairman of the Senate Indian Affairs Committee, announced today the Committee has passed the long-overdue bill to reauthorize the Indian Health Care Improvement Act, and voted to include an amendment aimed at reducing the high rate of suicide among teenagers living on Indian reservations.  
   "Today, we took a step that is long overdue toward updating the way our nation delivers Indian health care," Dorgan said. "There is a bona fide crisis in health care access and resources on Indian reservations in this country, and I'm pleased to see this bill moving along, especially because it includes my amendment on the issue of Indian teen suicide." 
   "The rate of suicide among teenagers living on reservations in the Great Plains is 10 times the national average," he said. "This is a tough issue to discuss publicly. There's no doubt about that. But now that we are talking about it openly, we can see that steps are being taken on a policy level to address and hopefully, prevent the tragic loss of life that so many in Indian Country have experienced." 
   Dorgan's amendment would increase the number of grants available for the federal Indians Into Psychology program; create a demonstration project that would bring more counseling services, professionals and suicide-prevention materials to rural tribal communities using telecommunications technology; and it would make suicide research a priority for the Indian Health Service (IHS). 
   The overall bill reauthorizes the law that is one of the most far-reaching and important statutes affecting Indian country for the first time since 1992. The legislation authorizes direct health care services, health care education and training programs, health care facilities, mental health and children's services--along with a host of other programs managed by IHS. Dorgan said the bill improves existing law significantly. For example, it designates North Dakota and South Dakota as a single Contract Health Service Area, allowing Indians in these states to receive services from health care facilities in either state. 
   The bill now goes to the full Senate for consideration.
 
 