SENS. DORGAN, CONRAD FIGHT FOR NORTH DAKOTA'S HOSPITALS
  U.S. Senators Byron Dorgan (D-ND) and Kent Conrad (D-ND) secured a commitment from the chairman of the Senate Finance Committee today to take up two pieces of Medicare legislation that would help strengthen hospitals across North Dakota and secure critical funding for St. Joseph's Hospital in Dickinson. 
   Dorgan and Conrad secured a commitment from Finance Committee Chairman Max Baucus (D-MT) to take up legislation that would extend a Medicare provision that provides federal funding for nine North Dakota hospitals to better account for high labor costs. The provision, known as Section 508 of the Medicare Modernization Act, was originally introduced by Senator Conrad in 2003 in an effort to ensure that rural hospitals were compensated fairly by Medicare. 
   Dorgan and Conrad also pressed Baucus to support legislation that would allow the state of North Dakota to designate St. Joseph's as a Critical Access Hospital. The designation would recognize the hospital's role as the lone hospital in the Dickinson area and bring more revenue to the facility, but federal laws currently prevent it from being named a Critical Access Hospital because it is too near another facility with that designation.
   "Access to health care is a critical issue for communities in our rural areas, and St. Joseph's offers just one example of some changes that need to be made to ensure that is possible," said Senator Dorgan, a leader in the effort to strengthen rural hospitals by insisting that they be fairly compensated by Medicare. "We need to change both the reimbursement rates for rural hospitals and the way we designate Critical Access Hospitals so residents of our rural areas don't have to wonder whether they'll have to drive hundreds of miles for basic care. I'm glad Chairman Baucus agreed to take up this legislation and I look forward to working with him to move it through Congress."
   "St. Joseph's and many other North Dakota hospitals count on Medicare to make ends meet. That is why these two Medicare policies are so important. If they are not enacted, many of our rural hospitals might not be able to provide the kind of health care that North Dakotans deserve," Senator Conrad said.
   Senator Conrad is a senior member of the Senate Finance Committee, which oversees Medicare. He created the Section 508 Program in the Medicare drug bill which enables rural hospitals to make infrastructure improvements and offer competitive wages ensuring a highly qualified staff. He also helped create the Critical Access Hospital program in 1997 which has helped North Dakota rural hospitals secure additional federal funding.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 