SEN. DORGAN CALLS ON SEN. GRASSLEY TO BRING FAST-TRACK RESOLUTION TO FLOOR BEFORE AUTOMATIC RENEWAL
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) called on Sen. Charles Grassley (R-IA), Chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, to allow the full Senate to vote on a resolution of disapproval on trade promotion authority, the "fast-track" trade law that prohibits Congress from amending pending trade agreements.  
   The President has requested a two-year extension of the Trade Promotion Authority Act of 2002, which expires this year. Unless the Senate or House issues a resolution of disapproval, S. Res. 100, by July 1, the law allows the President's request to be granted automatically. 
   In a letter to Senator Grassley, Dorgan-along with eight other senators, including Sens. Robert Byrd (D-WV), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), and Jay Rockefeller (D-WV)-write, "It is our belief that trade promotion authority has led to the negotiation of some deeply flawed agreements. We support S. Res. 100 and believe that it deserves an up-or-down vote in the full Senate." 
   The July 1 deadline has immediate implications for trade agreements the Administration is currently negotiating with Thailand, Korea, and several Latin American countries. The Central American Free Trade Agreement (CAFTA), which the Finance Committee is set to take up Tuesday, would not be affected because it was negotiated under fast-track rules. But that's exactly why Sen. Dorgan says the law should not be renewed. 
   "CAFTA is the case-in-point for what's wrong with fast-track authority. To allow trade agreements to be negotiated with absolutely zero input from Congress is wrong, and would just hasten the shipment of more American jobs overseas, in this case to Central American countries with cheap labor and sub-standard working conditions," Dorgan said. "It's not surprising that the committee has bottled up this resolution, but Congress designed the fast-track law in a way that allows us to assess how it has worked and make changes if necessary. That's the letter of the law, and I hope the Finance Committee will let the Senate say its piece on trade policies before it's too late."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 