SEN. DORGAN ANNOUNCES HIGHWAY BILL FUNDING FOR ROAD PROJECTS ACROSS NORTH DAKOTA
  An agreement reached on the long-overdue federal highway bill has big dividends for North Dakota, Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) said Thursday.  
   The highway bill authorizes funding for road, bridge and transportation projects across the nation, and is generally viewed as one of the fastest legislative means to job growth Congress can adopt. 
   Dorgan was able to add funding for specific projects in Minot, Bowman/Hettinger, Max, Carrington, Wahpeton and Mandan. He also was able to win a "high-priority corridor" designation for the Theodore Roosevelt Expressway, which includes U.S. 85 that runs through Williston, Alexander, Watford City, Grassy Butte, Fairfield, Belfield, Amidon and Bowman. The designation makes the project eligible for other federal funds in the future. 
   Dorgan said in addition to the standard formula funding for North Dakota projects, the state will receive $40 million in other funds for projects deemed "high-priority." Overall, North Dakota projects will receive approximately $1.6 billion through 2009. 
   "Congress should have passed this highway bill in 2003, so the fact it's finally near completion is great news for job growth in North Dakota and across the country," Dorgan said. "This bill gives construction companies and engineering firms new business, and helps to ensure our highways are safe and capable of meeting our nation's commerce needs. I'm pleased to have helped secure funding for road improvement projects from Wahpeton to Hettinger." 
   Among the projects Dorgan was able to add funding for in the final conference report: 
   * Minot: $10 million for reconstruction on U.S. Route 83/North Broadway * Bowman and Hettinger: $10 million for improvements to U.S. Route 12 * Max: $6 million for reconstruction of U.S. Route 83 * Carrington: $4 million for reconstruction of U.S. Route 281 * Wahpeton: $3 million for reconstruction on N.D. Route 127 * Mandan: $2 million for reconstruction of Mandan Avenue 
   The Senate is expected to vote on the bill's final passage Friday.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 