SENS. BROWN, DORGAN INTRODUCE RESTORING INTEGRITY IN CONTRACTING ACT
  In the wake of Halliburton's announcement of plans to move its headquarters to Dubai in the United Arab Emirates, Sens. Sherrod Brown (D-OH) and Byron Dorgan (D-ND) today unveiled legislation to better ensure good corporate citizenship. The Restoring Integrity in Contracting Act of 2007 (RICA) would make it illegal for federal contacts to be awarded to any company doing business with state sponsors of terrorism or that reincorporates offshore.  
   "For far too long, the government has put the interests of corporations over the interests of our country," Senator Brown said. "This legislation will stop the current practice of rewarding expatriate corporations and companies that do business with state sponsors of terrorism from profiting through government contracts. It will help restore integrity in our government contracting process and encourage good corporate citizenship." 
   "Corporations are free to move their CEOs and headquarters wherever they want," Senator Dorgan said, "but if they choose to work with state sponsors of terror, they shouldn't expect to be rewarded with U.S. government contracts. We are engaged in a war on terror, and corporations need to show some economic patriotism. Our bill will help encourage that." 
   Under current U.S. law, it is illegal for American companies to do business with countries such as Iran, which is a state sponsor of terrorism. However, a loophole in the law permits U.S. companies to do business with Iran through their foreign subsidiaries provided that the business is not directed by the U.S. corporate headquarters. Halliburton, one of America's largest contractors, used this loophole to conduct extensive business with Iran, through a subsidiary in Dubai. Halliburton also received more than $20 billion in government contracts. 
   Corporate expatriates, such as Tyco International, that move operations off shore to avoid paying U.S. taxes also have been awarded billions of dollars in U.S. government contracts. Brown and Dorgan emphasized that government should reward companies that are proud of their U.S. citizenship. 
   The Restoring Integrity in Contracting Act (RICA) of 2007 would: 
   Deny government contracts for five years to any corporation that expatriates; Deny government contracts to any corporation, or subsidiary, that does business with a state sponsor of terrorism or foreign terrorist organization with penalties of 5 years for the first offense, 10 years for the second offense, and 15 years for any offense after the second offense; Require all future contract bids to include full disclosure information on expatriation and business operations with state sponsors of terrorism and foreign terrorist organizations, and establish penalties for non-disclosure. Provide for a database of contractor information.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 