SEN. DORGAN SAYS CONGRESS MUST MOVE QUICKLY TO BRING DISASTER RELIEF TO AMERICAN FARMERS, RANCHERS
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) called on Congress to move quickly to approve an agriculture disaster bill he is co-sponsoring with a bipartisan group of 23 other senators, including Sen. Kent Conrad (D-ND), saying prompt action is essential to help producers in North Dakota and across the country whose incomes have been decimated by soggy farm fields, skyrocketing energy costs and low commodity prices. 
   Joining Senator Conrad, Senator Max Baucus (D-MT), and members of the National Farmers Union and American Farm Bureau at a press conference, Dorgan said the bill would assist producers who have lost or suffered damage to crops, livestock and livestock feed supplies. It also provides assistance to offset the high cost of energy and fertilizer.
   The legislation would be a significant boost for producers in North Dakota, where heavy rains in the summer of 2005 prevented planting of more than 1 million acres, Dorgan said. Rising energy prices cost the average North Dakota farm family an extra $18,000 last year, he said, and if prices do not fall, farm income in the state will drop 88 percent this year.
   "We need to support our farmers and ranchers all over the country who have faced drought, wildfires, flooding, and record high energy costs," Dorgan said. "I support helping producers who were affected by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, but we also have an obligation to help farmers across the country whose livelihoods have been affected by weather-related disasters."
   Senators Dorgan and Conrad were the first Members of Congress to write a disaster relief package for farmers and ranchers last year. Dorgan succeeded in attaching a disaster relief package to a major spending bill last December, but the majority party in the House struck the language from the final bill.
   "The cost of this bill is just crumbs on the table from what we're spending in Iraq and Afghanistan," Dorgan said. "There's no question we need to be funding our military obligations, but it's time we start taking care of things here at home as well, and that means helping out our family farmers."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 