SEN. DORGAN SAYS CAFTA TREATY WILL COST U.S. JOBS
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) says the new Central American Free Trade Agreement, signed Friday in Washington, is "more of the same flawed trade policies" that have produced the largest U.S. trade deficits in the history of the country. Like its predecessors, CAFTA will cost the U.S. jobs, Dorgan said.  
   "Look, this isn't theory any more. The evidence is before us. The North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) cost us more than half a million jobs. Now they are proposing that we do the same thing we did with Mexico, this time connecting our economy to the economies of Guatemala, Costa Rica, the Dominican Republic, and Honduras. These are not big markets for our goods. CAFTA is going to cost the U.S. a substantial amount of jobs," Dorgan said. 
   Dorgan said CAFTA sets the kind of precedent that could eventually wipe out sugar beet farming in the Red River Valley and throughout the United States. "The production and processing of sugar, which begins on family farms across the country, contributes over $2.6 billion each year to the economies of North Dakota and Minnesota alone. It accounts for thousands of jobs," Dorgan said. "This agreement is unfair to family farmers who grow sugar beets and would injure the economies of the sugar beet and cane growing regions of America." 
   Dorgan said any modifications to sugar trade policy should be done through the World Trade Organization, not through bilateral or regional trade agreements such as CAFTA. 
   The agreement won't do much for workers in the other countries, either, Dorgan noted, since CAFTA includes few protections for workers or provisions to protect the environment. "I don't think we need to be asking U.S. producers to compete with countries where they pay 23 cents an hour, hire 13 year olds, and dump pollutants freely into the air and water." 
   "I'd like to see the U.S. Trade Representative spend a little time fixing problems with past trade agreements, rather than negotiating new ones that repeat the same old mistakes," Dorgan added. 
   Dorgan said the Administration is unlikely to send the CAFTA treaty to the Senate for ratification this year because the Bush Administration doesn't want it debated before the election.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 