SEN. DORGAN BRINGS U.S. GEOLOGICAL SURVEY OFFICIALS TO MEET WITH LOCAL ENERGY INDUSTRY LEADERS
Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) is bringing officials from the United States Geological Survey (USGS) in Washington, D.C. to meet with local oil industry leaders on Wednesday, November 29, at Bismarck State College (BSC) to discuss research they are doing and information USGS has that can help determine available petroleum supplies within the Bakken Shale formation. 
 Dorgan said Tuesday that the potential for oil development in the Bakken Shale formation of the Williston Basin could significantly boost western North Dakota's status as an economic center for oil production, and work needs to be done to determine what supply is available to move closer to production.
 Dorgan will hold a press conference on Wednesday, November 29 at 10:00 AM in the Missouri Room at the BSC student union, to discuss the potential for oil development in the Bakken Shale formation. Following the press conference, a meeting will be held at 10:30 AM with representatives from USGS, North Dakota Petroleum Council, Northern Alliance of Independent Producers, Energy & Environmental Research Center (EERC), state and federal officials and oil industry leaders.
 "There has been a lot written about the potential for oil development in Bakken Shale," said Dorgan. "I am pleased that USGS officials will be able to share with local oil industry leaders what is being done to determine the amount of recoverable oil that could alter North Dakota's economy and bring significant investments to our state."
 Dorgan has pressed USGS to release the Bakken Shale study by USGS scientist, Dr. Leigh Price, who studied the untapped reserve in the Williston Basin in 1999 and 2000, but died before the study was fully completed and peer-reviewed. Dorgan has also included language in the Interior Appropriations bill, still pending before the U.S. Senate, telling USGS to expedite its resource assessments of this region.
 Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 