SEN. DORGAN SAYS INITIATIVES IN ENERGY EFFICIENCY LEVERAGE NORTH DAKOTA AS LEADER IN ENERGY PRODUCTION
Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) said Tuesday that North Dakota is continuing to be a leader in producing energy efficient technologies, and Great River Energy and Blue Flint Ethanol are prime examples of how North Dakota can develop new technologies through innovation. Dorgan toured Coal Creek Station and Blue Flint Ethanol, and met with employees from GRE and Blue Flint Ethanol to discuss their recent expansions and future plans for producing new energy efficient technologies. 
 "North Dakota is continuing to be a leader in energy efficiency, and I am pleased to see the innovative expansions in the areas of ethanol, advanced coal drying, coal-to-liquid technology, and fly ash," said Dorgan. "I will continue to work to boost North Dakota's energy efficiency and reduce emissions of greenhouse gases."
 Dorgan coauthored the renewable fuel standard in the 2005 Energy Bill to require the U.S. to use 7.5 billion gallons of ethanol in gasoline blends annually by 2012. Dorgan has been a champion of funding clean coal technologies through the Department and Energy with programs at the Energy & Environmental Research Center (EERC) to provide research to reduce emissions in the use of our coal resources. Dorgan, who will chair the Senate Energy subcommittee in the new Congress, will continue to push for increased use of ethanol.
 Dorgan toured Coal Creek Station, North Dakota's largest power plant, and Blue Flint Ethanol, GRE's new joint venture with Headwaters, Inc. Dorgan received updates on the rapid coal drying Lignite Fuel Enhancement System that was developed at Coal Creek Station, and is being implemented to reduce emissions and increase efficiency of lignite as it is burned. GRE also partners with Headwaters, Inc. to market "fly ash," a byproduct of burning lignite coal that saves in landfill disposal costs and reduces greenhouse gas emissions.
 Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 