SEN. DORGAN CITES ROGER MARIS HOMERUN RECORD AT COMMERCE COMMITTEE HEARING
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) reminded Baseball Commissioner Bud Selig and five Hall of Fame baseball players who today attended a Commerce Committee hearing on the issue of steroids and baseball that North Dakota-native Roger Maris broke a 34-year-old Babe Ruth record by hitting 61 home runs in 1961--without the use of performance-enhancing drugs.  
   "Some of us think that homerun record still stands, and that is a sad comment on baseball," said Dorgan, referring to the acknowledged use of steroids by some Major League Baseball (MLB) players in recent years. 
   At the hearing, Dorgan pointed to past testimony from pediatric physicians citing the dangers to children who see their sports idols using performance-enhancing drugs. 
   "We have had testimony from doctors who had 12- and 14-year-old patients who are trying to emulate their sports heroes by bulking up with performance-enhancing drugs at the risk of their health," Dorgan said. "That's why baseball either must have an effective plan to prevent performance-enhancing drugs in America's national pastime, or Congress will do it for them." 
   The Commerce Committee questioned MLB Commissioner Bud Selig, Executive Director of the MLB Players Association Donald Fehr, as well as leaders of the National Football League (NFL), National Basketball Association (NBA), and National Hockey League (NHL). The Senators addressed two pending pieces of legislation that would mandate federal drug-testing standards for major professional sports organizations, and whether existing drug-testing policies effectively deter athletes from using dangerous performance-enhancing drugs. 
   Dorgan chaired the first Commerce Subcommittee hearing on the use of steroids in baseball in 2002. He has, in the past, called on MLB and the Players Association to hammer out a tougher drug-testing policy, and threatened congressional intervention if no agreement is reached. He said Wednesday that it seems that time has run out. 
   "This is not, in my judgment, negotiable," Dorgan said at the hearing. "I think the game is up here."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202-224-2551.
 
 