SEN. DORGAN SECURES $2 MILLION FOR KILLDEER MOUNTAIN MANUFACTURING, BOEING TO DEVELOP 'TOOL KIT'
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) said Wednesday the Senate Appropriations Committee has approved $2 million for Killdeer Mountain Manufacturing, in partnership with Boeing, to use radio frequency identification (RFID) and other cost-cutting technology and business practices to develop a "tool kit" to help small- and medium-sized companies become more competitive.  
   Dorgan, a member of the Committee, secured the funding for the project, which would help make smaller businesses more efficient by employing state-of-the-art technology and eliminating unnecessary and wasteful business practices. The resulting "tool kit" will eventually be made available to small- and medium-sized businesses who are subcontractors on Department of Defense projects, saving taxpayer money on federal contracts and helping North Dakota businesses compete for those contracts, Dorgan said. 
   "The work done by Killdeer Mountain Manufacturing will make electronic tools and technologies, such as radio frequency identification, available to small businesses who usually can't afford them," Dorgan said. "By using these tools to cut costs and improve efficiency, these companies will be better able to compete for defense-related contracts against larger, better-funded companies. This will be particularly important for small companies in rural areas such as North Dakota." 
   Dorgan has worked with KMM since the late 1980s when he helped steer federal Defense Department aerospace contracts to KMM's North Dakota manufacturing facilities. Since then company has grown to 210 employees and landed several additional federal contracts. The Senator has sponsored a series of conferences aimed at helping North Dakota companies learn how to capture federal contracts and grow their businesses, such as the Federal Information Technology (IT) Contracting Roundtable he held May 19 in Bismarck. 
   "We want to thank Senator Dorgan for his support for this vital program," said Don Hedger, President of Killdeer Mountain Manufacturing. "It will permit many rural communities to achieve badly needed economic development." 
   The funding is part of the Defense Appropriations bill for Fiscal Year 2006. The bill goes next to the full Senate for consideration.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202-224-2551.
 
 