DEFENSE BILL INCLUDES FUNDING FOR CENTER OF EXCELLENCE FOR UAV EDUCATION AT UNIVERSITY OF NORTH DAKOTA, SEN. DORGAN SAYS
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) said Wednesday he has secured $1 million in a bill approved by the Senate Appropriations Committee to create a Center of Excellence at the University of North Dakota (UND) that will support the new Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) mission coming to Grand Forks Air Force Base.  
   UND will work with the Air Force to establish the Center for Excellence for Defense UAV Education, Dorgan said. Air Force officials have said that an advantage of locating UAVs in Grand Forks is the close proximity of the UND School of Aerospace Science. The school is uniquely positioned to work with the Department of Defense and the Air Force with training, professional development and research in UAV-related fields, Dorgan said. The development is another boost to Dorgan's Red River Valley Research Corridor. 
   "This program is another example of how we can strengthen our country while linking up our existing economic and research engines to create new opportunities for our state," Dorgan said. "This emerging mission at the Grand Forks Air Force Base is an ideal complement to the world-class Aerospace Studies program at UND. This program will be a valuable tool for the air base, UND, the Pentagon and the local community." 
   "We're thrilled to receive this funding," said Dr. Bruce Smith, Dean of the John D. Odegard School of Aerospace Sciences at UND. "All of the key elements for the Center of Excellence for Defense UAV Education exist here at UND. That includes our proximity to the border, our connection to a research-intensive university, our Air Force base and the flight school at the School of Aerospace Sciences." 
   The funding for the Center of Excellence is included in the Defense Appropriations bill, which the Senate Appropriations Committee approved Wednesday. A grant from the Federal Aviation Administration also will support the program. 
   Another earmark Dorgan secured in the bill provides $2 million for UND to continue helicopter training for ROTC students and West Point cadets. 
   The bill goes next to the full Senate for consideration.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202-224-2551.
 
 