DELEGATION, GOVERNOR PROMOTE NORTH DAKOTA BASES TO TOP AIR FORCE BRASS
  Pressing the case for North Dakota's bases, Sens. Kent Conrad and Byron Dorgan, Rep. Earl Pomeroy and Gov. John Hoeven met with Air Force Chief of Staff Gen. John Jumper and Acting Air Force Secretary Mike Dominguez. Thursday's meeting was the most recent in a series of high-level discussions with Pentagon brass promoting the future of North Dakota's three major military installations.  
   "The Air Force message to us was very simple. They said that there haven't been any final decisions yet as to which bases will be on the BRAC list. They said that there isn't a final list yet," the delegation and governor said in a joint statement. "We know there is time to make a final push here on behalf of our bases - making the case that our bases should be judged on their significant contributions to our national defense. We are presenting the facts that North Dakota's political leadership is united on behalf of our bases, our North Dakota communities are among the strongest base supporters in the country, and that these bases are tremendous assets for our nation's security both now and in the future." 
   The delegation and the governor pressed Jumper and Dominguez on the advantages that the North Dakota bases provide: ample airspace, exceptional performance, outstanding facilities, a lack of encroachment and supportive communities that warmly welcome the men and women of our armed forces. 
   The Defense Department will release a list of bases slated for either closure or realignment no later than May 16. The list will be reviewed by the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission, which will offer its own recommendations no later than September 8. Ultimately the President has to decide whether to accept the Commission's recommendations. 
   Earlier on Thursday, the delegation and the governor met with Anthony Principi, chairman of the BRAC commission, in Senator Conrad's Capitol Hill office. North Dakota's four political leaders have also launched a statewide petition drive. By Friday morning, that drive had collected more than 25,000 signatures in support of the bases in Minot, Grand Forks and Fargo.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 