SEN. DORGAN TO HOST ENERGY EXPO TO HIGHLIGHT NORTH DAKOTA'S GROWING ROLE IN U.S. ENERGY INDEPENDENCE
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) announced Monday he will convene the first-ever Upper Great Plains Energy Expo in October in Bismarck, convening experts from across North Dakota and the nation to discuss the ways the state will help lead the United States to energy independence.  
   Dorgan's Energy Expo will feature seminars, a trade show and speakers that highlight new, innovative energy technology being developed in North Dakota that will help the state capitalize on its diverse energy resources. Our future energy development will contribute to our national energy policy, and it will also strengthen our regional economy, Dorgan said. 
   Dorgan is the chairman of two key energy panels in the new Congress - the Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee and the Senate Subcommittee on Energy. The posts will help Dorgan advance his vision of developing North Dakota's diverse and vast energy resources to help eliminate America's dependence on foreign oil. 
   "No state has more capacity than North Dakota to produce energy from both fossil fuels and renewable energy sources," Dorgan said. "We have substantial reserves of oil and natural gas and are even now experiencing new development of oil from the Bakken Shale field, which promises to be a significant contributor to our energy production. We also have vast deposits of lignite coal that can be used to generate electricity or convert to synthetic coal." 
   "Our state is called the Saudi Arabia of wind for wind energy purposes. We have great capacity to produce ethanol and the full range of biofuels. And we have a national research center that puts us in the forefront of the future development of hydrogen fuel cells," he said. "I want this Energy Exposition to be a marketplace of ideas and progress in developing the full potential of our state's energy future. This is a future that will create new opportunity and new jobs for our state in the coming years."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 