DELEGATION, GOVERNOR CALL FOR BORDER SECURITY PROJECT TO BE PUT INTO ACTION
  Citing the Defense Department's recent statement of the need for an air base for homeland security missions, North Dakota's top political leaders met with Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff today to push for the deployment of the so-called "Smart Border" project.  
   Secretary Chertoff met with Senator Conrad and Congressman Pomeroy in Washington. Governor Hoeven joined by conference call from North Dakota; Senator Dorgan spoke to Homeland Security aides separately. 
   North Dakota's representatives pointed out to Secretary Chertoff that in its recent report on the Base Realignment and Closure process, the Defense Department singled out Grand Forks Air Force Base as the possible home for Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) to patrol the Northern Border on a Homeland Security mission. In his report on Grand Forks Air Force Bases to the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission, Rumsfeld stated, "However, of our Northern Tier bases, Grand Forks ranked highest in military value for the UAV mission." Additionally, Acting Secretary of the Air Force Michael Dominguez stated at a BRAC Commission hearing that there is no better location for a UAV mission than Grand Forks. 
   That Defense Department recommendation echoed the bipartisan Intelligence Reform Bill, federal legislation that included a provision authored by Senator Conrad directing Homeland Security to test advanced technology - including UAVs, cameras, sensors and a software network - along the Northern Border. In addition, Governor Hoeven has initiated a grant request with the Department of Homeland Security through the state Department of Emergency Management for more than $37 million to start a pilot program for using technology along the border. 
   "We've asked Secretary Chertoff to give us a progress report on the Smart Border project, and he's agreed to do that. He knows we want to get this project going as quickly as possible, and he said he was very interested," Senator Conrad said. "We face serious threats along America's borders. The security of our borders is vital to the security of our nation." 
   "We have a long-common border with Canada, and securing our homeland means securing that border," Senator Dorgan said. 
   "Grand Forks Air Force Base is uniquely positioned to play a critical role in Homeland Security operations," Congressman Pomeroy said. "Not only will Grand Forks continue to support military operations overseas, but a new UAV mission at the base would be vital in the effort to keep our borders secure." 
   "We have been working for several years at both the state and federal level to launch a border initiative using the most advanced technology, developed on North Dakota university campuses," Governor Hoeven said. 
   Several organizations have already begun coordinating to develop the hardware and software to be deployed for the Smart Border project, including the University of North Dakota, North Dakota State University, the U.S. Border Patrol, the National Guard, and private companies such as Hewlett-Packard, Panasonic and Computer Sciences Corp.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 