DELEGATION MEETS WITH BRAC STAFF IN FOLLOW-UP TO HEARING, SITE VISIT
  Sens. Byron Dorgan and Kent Conrad and Rep. Earl Pomeroy provided more information about North Dakota's air bases to senior staff of the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission Wednesday in a follow-up meeting to last week's field hearing in Grand Forks.  
   Three members of the BRAC Commission last week toured Grand Forks Air Force Base and held a hearing on the future of both the Grand Forks base and the 119th Fighter Wing at Fargo's Hector Field. The events prompted hundreds from the community to turn out and show their support for keeping the bases open and active. 
   The delegation said the commissioners and staff raised questions during the visit, and today's meeting on Capitol Hill gave them a chance to provide detailed answers to their questions and to continue making the case that the bases should remain a significant part of U.S. military operations for decades to come. 
   Specifically, the delegation responded to questions regarding future missions for Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs), the strategic importance of the bases' northern tier location, and the broad role of the North Dakota National Guard. 
   "The senior staff to the BRAC Commission will play a critical role in determining what happens in the next couple of months," the delegation said in a joint statement. "This meeting gave us a chance to answer the staff's questions and arm them with all the data we have available to us. We have a compelling and persuasive case to make that the air bases in Grand Forks and Fargo should be the hub for missions that will be important to the military for decades to come. We made that case today, and we'll keep making it in the weeks and months ahead." 
   The meeting, held in Senator Conrad's office, included the Commission's Chief of Staff, Charlie Battaglia; Ken Small, Chief of the Air Force Analytical Team; and Nathaniel Sillin, Associate Analyst. 
   The BRAC Commission must send President Bush its recommendations by September 8, 2005.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 