SENATORS CALL FOR FAIR, EFFICIENT DELIVERY OF DISASTER AID
  Responding to the concerns of farmers and ranchers about the Department of Agriculture's handling of drought assistance and quality loss provisions in previous years, Sens. Byron Dorgan and Kent Conrad today urged Secretary of Agriculture Ann Veneman to ensure that the $2.9 billion in emergency aid they helped secure for America's farmers and ranchers is distributed in a fair and efficient manner.  
   Dorgan's and Conrad's offices have been hearing from farmers and ranchers who are concerned that the Administration, as in some previous years, may delay delivery of disaster funds and administer the program in a way that limits eligibility and results in less assistance to producers. 
   "As the Department establishes the regulations and procedures needed to begin the delivery of the recently enacted agriculture disaster assistance package, we write to encourage that USDA fully utilize the discretionary authority contained in the disaster provisions," Dorgan and Conrad wrote in a letter sent to Veneman. The letter was co-signed by Senators Max Baucus (D-MT), Tom Daschle (D-SD), Mark Dayton (D-MN), Patty Murray (D-WA), and Ben Nelson (D-NE). 
   Earlier this year, Senators Conrad and Dorgan introduced legislation that formed the basis for the $2.9 billion in emergency aid for farmers and ranchers hit by weather disasters. North Dakota farmers and ranchers could qualify for close to $200 million under the aid package. 
   "Time is of the essence. Tens of thousands of family farmers and ranchers in North Dakota - and across our nation - need our assistance and they need it now. The USDA must ensure that they receive this assistance as quickly and as efficiently as possible," Conrad and Dorgan said in a joint statement. 
   Senator Conrad serves on the Senate Agriculture Committee. Senator Dorgan serves on the Senate Agriculture Appropriations Subcommittee.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Sanjay Talwani, 202/224-2551.
 
 