SEN. DORGAN PRESSES ADMINISTRATION TO STOP BLOCKING FOOD SALES TO CUBA
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) said Thursday the U.S. Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Asset Control (OFAC) is quietly using new tactics and resources to stop legal sales of American farm products to Cuba. Sen. Dorgan said he is calling on the Treasury Department's Inspector General to investigate whether OFAC is exceeding its legal authority by using its resources to block Cuba food sales.  
   OFAC's top job is to track terrorists' funding sources, Dorgan noted. The new effort diverts attention and resources from that, in addition to hurting U.S. farmers at a time when farm incomes need bolstering. 
   Legislation enacted in 2000, which Dorgan sponsored, formally lifted the 40-year-old embargo against food and medicine sales to Cuba, but the Bush Administration has put up numerous roadblocks to practical implementation of the law. 
   "It's clear the Administration wants to shut down agricultural trade with Cuba," Dorgan said. "With our trade deficit soaring, you would think the Administration would be working to boost exports. Instead, OFAC is using resources that could fight terrorists to instead thwart the cash sales of hundreds of millions of dollars in farm products to Cuba. Those sales would mean more income for family farmers in North Dakota and across the nation." 
   In the past few weeks, OFAC has stopped U.S. banks from processing Cuban payments for American farm goods on the grounds that the sales may be violating the requirement that the Cuban buyers pay cash in advance. In the past, OFAC and other government agencies have allowed U.S. exporters to comply with this provision by shipping the goods, and then transferring title and control of the goods to the buyer only after payment has been received. However, OFAC is now telling exporters they cannot legally put the goods on ships from the U.S. until after they have been paid by the Cuban buyer. 
   Dorgan said this new tactic by OFAC is another attempt to make food sales to Cuba virtually impossible by increasing red tape and raising shipping times and costs, making U.S. farm products uncompetitive. In addition, transferring the title of goods to Cuban buyers while the goods are still on American soil makes them vulnerable to court-ordered seizures resulting from legal disputes with the Cuban government. 
   The Treasury Department has still not publicly announced the moves, and farm exporters are learning of the new tactics only when they are told by their banks, Dorgan said. 
   "The Administration's inconsistency is staggering," Dorgan said. "They tell us trade with the communist governments of China and Vietnam will help freedom advance in those countries, yet they do everything possible to prevent the sale of lentils and soybeans to Cuba. This wrong-headed policy is doing nothing to bring down Fidel Castro. It just hurts American farmers and violates the spirit of the law allowing these sales to go forward." 
   U.S. farmers and ranchers have sold nearly $1 billion worth of agricultural goods to Cuba in the past three years despite numerous Administration roadblocks, confirming the potential significance of the Cuban market. Dorgan said he plans to introduce legislation in the new Congress to prevent OFAC from using strong-arm tactics to thwart the sales. 
   To view a letter on this issue from Senator Dorgan and a bipartisan group of Senators to Secretary of State Colin Powell and Treasury Secretary John Snow, see http://dorgan.senate.gov/newsroom/extras/120204powellsnow.PDF.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Sanjay Talwani, 202/224-2551. 
 
 