DELEGATION URGES FEDERAL ACTION ON DEVILS LAKE FLOODING
  Sens. Byron Dorgan and Kent Conrad and Rep. Earl Pomeroy urged federal emergency officials to reconvene a task force to coordinate an immediate response to rising water at Devils Lake that threatens to flood roads, homes and farms.  
   In a letter to Michael Brown, Department of Homeland Security Undersecretary of Emergency Preparedness and Response, the delegation and North Dakota Governor John Hoeven said Devils Lake is predicted to reach its highest level in 130 years and is already perilously close to overtaking a lake levee and inundating homes and roads. The task force would include the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), the Army Corps of Engineers and the Federal Highway Administration. 
   "We have to get a disaster team in there now, we have to raise the dike, we have to make some additional investments in roads, and we're going to have to deal with flooding of agricultural land," Dorgan said. "And there's an urgency to be working on these things right now, today." 
   "We've got to deal with farmland flooding, raising roads and raising the dikes. All of these issues have a federal component, and we are asking FEMA and the Corps to dispatch an emergency task force to Devils Lake region immediately," Conrad said. "We need action. We need these agencies to respond to the immediate needs in the basin." 
   "The residents of Devils Lake shouldn't have to wait to see action from FEMA," Pomeroy said. "Devils Lake flooding is at a crisis point, and FEMA needs to take the lead in coordinating the many federal agencies working on this situation. It is vitally important that the personnel at FEMA understand the gravity of Devils Lake flooding." 
   In a conference call with Devils Lake-area officials, the delegation said they are pressing federal agencies to send representatives to Devils Lake to see the flood conditions for themselves firsthand. Joining the delegation on the conference call was Minnewaukan Mayor Mike Every, Devils Lake Mayor Fred Bott, Ramsey County Emergency Management Director Tim Heisler, Devils Lake Basin Joint Water Resource Board Chairman Mike Connor, and members of the Ramsey and Benson County Commissions.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 