SEN. DORGAN ADVOCATES 10-YEAR EXTENSION OF TAX INCENTIVE FOR RENEWABLE ENERGY IN MEETING WITH PRESIDENT
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) met with President Bush and Energy Secretary Samuel Bodman at the White House Friday and urged them to support a long-term commitment to tax incentives that will spur new investment in renewable energy.  
   Dorgan, chairman of the Senate Subcommittee on Energy and the Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee, said he was encouraged by the President's call for more renewable energy production and the opportunity it presents to pursue policies that encourage investment in North Dakota's energy resources and move the nation toward energy independence. 
   "We had an hour-long meeting this morning at the White House to discuss renewable energy," Dorgan said. "It was a very productive meeting, and I gave him a number of suggestions I had to help encourage the production of renewable energy and develop North Dakota's energy resources. 
   "I asked the President to join me in pushing to extend the renewable energy production tax credit for 10 full years. We've had a production tax credit since 1992, but it's always been short-term and temporary. It's been extended five times and expired three times. That's not much of a commitment to renewable energy. If we're going to send a signal to investors that we are serious about renewable energy, then we need a commitment of at least 10 years so we can incentivize new projects. 
   "The President and I also talked about the Bakken Shale oil formation in western North Dakota. I was pleasantly surprised that the President was very knowledgeable about both the Bakken Shale formation as well as the Williston Basin oil activity. We talked about the new exploration techniques and the potential it might have to unlock substantial new quantities of oil and natural gas for this country. 
   "I told the President I support his call for 35 billion gallons of renewable fuels annually. We need to invest in research to find new feedstocks, and find a way to market this product so we have E85 and blender pumps available and get more flex-fuel vehicles on the road so we're able to use a much higher percentage of renewable fuels. 
   "This was a productive meeting and I hope we can use this as a starting point to work in a bipartisan way to grow our renewable energy industry and move our nation toward energy independence."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 