SEN. SAYS SUPREME COURT MISTAKEN ON HIGH-SPEED CHASE RULING
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND), whose mother was killed as a result of a high-speed police chase, said today the Supreme Court ruling on that subject will inevitably result in the deaths of more innocent bystanders. 
   "High-speed police chases in urban areas are sometimes necessary to pursue those who have committed serious felonies. I understand and accept that," Dorgan said. "But there must be some limits on high-speed police chases. There must be adequate policies and good training for police officers about when and how to engage in a high-speed police chase and when to disengage.
   "The stories of innocent bystanders being killed as a result of high-speed chases that originated as a result of a broken tail light or an illegal left turn describe why there must be some discretion and responsibility on the part of law enforcement about whether to engage in a high-speed chase in an urban area.
   "I understand that those responsible for the high-speed chase are those fleeing from the police. But I also understand that there are times when the police, because of the danger to others, should break off the high-speed chase, get a license number and arrest the person later rather than risk killing innocent people.
   "The Supreme Court ruling is a serious mistake and I think more lives will be lost because of that ruling."
   Senator Dorgan's mother was killed in a collision on a city street in Bismarck, North Dakota, while police were chasing a drunk driver at estimated speeds of 80 to 100 miles per hour. The chase ensued because the drunk driver was squealing his tires on Main Street.
   "I think it is disgusting that high-speed police chases have, in recent years, become a part of television entertainment. Regrettably, this ruling means there will likely be more high-speed chases and more innocent lives lost.
   "If the Supreme Court wishes to put a video on its Web site, which it did in this case, maybe it wants to find a video of a high-speed chase that started because of a broken tail light and ended with an innocent bystander being killed. Then the justices could have a conference to weigh the consequences of a high-speed chase over broken tail light versus the loss of life by an innocent bystander."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt, Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 