SEN. DORGAN STRESSES NEED FOR MORE SOCIAL SERVICE RESOURCES ON RESERVATIONS
  At the first-ever hearing on the issue of teen suicide on Indian reservations, Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) heard stories of cries for help that went unanswered due largely to a lack of social service resources. And while the problem is afflicting the Great Plains particularly hard, reservations across the U.S. have experienced clusters of suicides or suicidal behavior among their youth, witnesses said.  
   Joining Dorgan at the hearing to testify were Dr. Charles W. H. Grim, Director of Indian Health Service (IHS), Dr. Jon Perez, IHS Director of Behavioral Health, and several tribal leaders, students and clinical experts on the issue of Indian teen suicide (see attached for complete witness list). 
   "Clearly," he said, "there are many cases when the community is aware of which adolescents are troubled or depressed, and yet there is little or no recourse to help them. We are still very much in the stage of gathering facts about this problem, but it's clear that one response will have to be a substantial increase in social services professionals and other resources." Dorgan said the suicide rate among American Indian teenagers is 250 percent higher than the national average; and for Indian teens in the Great Plains the rate is 10 times the national average. 
   Dorgan, the new Vice Chairman of the Senate Indian Affairs Committee, said he convened the hearing in Bismarck following a cluster of suicides and attempted suicides on the Standing Rock Sioux Reservation and after learning about the prevalence of suicide clusters on reservations elsewhere in the country. The Standing Rock Reservation, for example, has reported 288 instances of suicidal behavior and 10 suicides since 2004. 
   "As sensitive as the topic is, we have to talk publicly about the problem of suicide among our Indian teenagers," Dorgan said. "While it's tough to talk about suicide, the fact is our young people-this country's future-are dying at alarming rates. Instead of ignoring the facts, we need to address the root causes, the assistance that's available to troubled teens, and the funding and human resources that are needed to reverse this devastating trend." 
   Dorgan said he intends to follow up the hearing in Bismarck with another Senate hearing in Washington, DC, on June 15.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 