SEN. DORGAN ANNOUNCES NORTH DAKOTA STATE UNIVERSITY VICE PRESIDENT TO TESTIFY ON NANOTECHNOLOGY BEFORE SENATE SUBCOMMITTEE
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) said Tuesday one of the Red River Valley Research Corridor's key components will take center stage Thursday when Phil Boudjouk, vice president for research at North Dakota State University (NDSU), testifies on the school's groundbreaking nanotechnology research and its potential to spur economic development at a Senate Trade, Tourism and Economic Development Subcommittee hearing. 
   Dorgan, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee, invited Boudjouk to testify on NDSU's partnerships with the private sector and federal government for research and commercialization of nanotechnology. The work at NDSU puts North Dakota at the cutting edge of the world's nanotechnology research, Dorgan said, and has helped build a strong reputation for the state and boost the region's economy. Boudjouk's inclusion in the expert panel is a recognition of North Dakota's leadership in the field, he said.
   "Phil Boudjouk can speak to not only the fascinating possibilities that nanotechnology presents for our future, but also the way an investment in this research can be used to cultivate new, high-paying jobs for North Dakotans and provide new brainpower to the region's business community," Dorgan said. "This is exciting work that will lead us into a new age of technology, and it's being done right here in the Red River Valley Research Corridor."
   "It's an honor for me to have the chance to tell Congress the story of our success in nanotechnology," Boudjouk said. "Senator Dorgan has helped us spawn strong relationships with the private sector that have led to significant economic development in the Fargo area."
   Dorgan created the Red River Valley Research Corridor in 2002 to build on North Dakota's quality research institutions and attract federal funding to the state. Since then, he has secured more than $300 million for high-tech projects in North Dakota.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 