SEN. DORGAN ANNOUNCES USDA AGREES TO EXTEND REAP ZONE PROGRAM
  U.S. Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND) announced Friday the U.S. Department of Agriculture has agreed to extend for two years the Rural Economic Area Partnership (REAP) zone program, which he created and has paved the way for a variety of innovative economic development projects in southwestern and north-central North Dakota.  
   Dorgan created the REAP Zones in an agreement with the Clinton Administration and, as a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, has secured $3.5 million in federal funding for its initiatives in North Dakota since Fiscal Year 2002.
   Dorgan has been pushing USDA to extend the REAP Zone program, which expired earlier this year, but the USDA has resisted. After Dorgan included a five-year extension of REAP Zones in the pending farm bill, USDA finally decided to extend the program on its own.
   "This is a victory for economic development in rural North Dakota," Dorgan said. "REAP Zones have proven to be successful in building the economy in rural America, and I'm glad USDA has recognized that and agreed to extend this program. This will give us an important tool as we work to bring good jobs to our state, and I'm going to keep pushing for a full five-year extension of our REAP Zones."
   Dorgan helped create the nationwide REAP zone program in 1995 when he secured a commitment for the project when he negotiated with then-President Bill Clinton over features of a budget bill. From that effort, Dorgan said, the REAP Zones were born, and they have since produced a trail of inspiring successes. Among them: Red Trail Energy, a recipient of a $40,000 planning grant from the REAP program that is building a lignite coal-fired ethanol plant in Richardton, North Dakota. And TechLink, he said, is another example of a collaborative business partnership aimed at expanding technology-oriented businesses opportunities in rural areas.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 