SEN. DORGAN LEADS SENATE EFFORT TO FULLY RESTORE FAMILY FARM SAFETY NET
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) asked the Senate Wednesday to restore the family farm safety net with an amendment to cap farm payments to the largest corporate farms.  
   Dorgan, along with Senator Chuck Grassley (R-IA), offered an amendment Wednesday afternoon during Senate consideration of the Budget Reconciliation Act. The Senate is expected to vote on the amendment Thursday. 
   The payment limitations amendment would cap farm price support payments at $250,000 for a married farming couple and $125,000 for a single farm operator. By ending very large farm program payments to the nation's biggest farms - often corporate farms - Dorgan and Grassley say their amendment will save $1.1 billion and allow that savings to be used to avoid further cuts to family farm price supports. 
   "My amendment is designed to protect family farmers from the mammoth cuts to the farm program that are currently being proposed by some in Congress. Instead, I believe we ought to limit payments to the largest corporate farms in the country, most of which are in the southern part of the United States, and protect small- and medium-sized farms that need and deserve an adequate safety net." 
   "If someone wants to farm the entire county, God bless them. Have at it," Dorgan said, "but there is no reason the federal government should bankroll their operation. Clearly those corporate mega-farms can weather the ups and downs of the market. Family farmers in North Dakota, however, cannot." 
   Dorgan's amendment would use the $1.1 billion it saves to restore funds to federal farm programs now set for deep cuts. It would cancel an across the board 2.5% cut in all farm commodity payments for the 2006 crop year, which would total $427 million. It also would restore $616 million to the Conservation Security Program (CSP), which provides payment incentives for environmentally sound farming practices--canceling about 75% of the cuts now planned for that program. 
   Finally, the amendment would restore $92 million now planned to be cut from the Conservation Reserve Program (CRP), which provides payments to farmers who idle their land for conservation purposes. That amount would restore about 70% of the cuts currently planned for the CRP.
 
 