SEN. DORGAN LEADS NORTH DAKOTA OFFICIALS IN MEETING WITH NORTHWEST CEO TO PRESS FOR ADJUSTMENTS TO PLANNED AIR SERVICE CHANGES
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) led a delegation of federal, state and city officials in Minneapolis today in a meeting he called with the CEO of Northwest Airlines to push for reconsideration of service changes the air carrier is planning for its air passenger service to North Dakota.  
   Dorgan said the group pushed for reconsideration of planned changes in both schedules and equipment for Bismarck, and Grand Forks. Dorgan said Northwest CEO Doug Steenland promised that both he and his staff would go back and "and take a good hard look and see if they can make some changes" to the service adjustments now planned. 
   "The changes Northwest has announced will be harmful to our state's air service, and those plans need to be adjusted," Dorgan said. "That's what we pushed for today. We made the case strongly and directly, and they said they would go back immediately and see if they can make some adjustments." 
   Dorgan organized the meeting after Northwest announced it was considering significant schedule and equipment changes system-wide, and after his office obtained information about plans Northwest is considering for North Dakota that are detrimental to North Dakota's needs. 
   Taking part in the meeting were local city and airport authority leaders from Bismarck, Fargo, Grand Forks and Minot, who all made formal presentations to Northwest Airlines CEO Doug Steenland about service needs for their cities. Governor Hoeven, Congressman Earl Pomeroy, and a representative of Senator Kent Conrad also took part. 
   Congressman Earl Pomeroy described the meeting as a "constructive exchange. We gave them a message that cutting back service on profitable North Dakota routes is not the direction they want to take." 
   Dorgan said he thinks the meeting accomplished its goal. "We wanted Northwest to understand our needs. Having provided service to North Dakota for 70 years, and being the dominant air carrier in our region, Northwest's service plans are very important to the economic development of our state. CEO Doug Steenland said he found the meeting very helpful and that he and his staff would go back and see if they can make some changes to what they now have on the drawing boards." 
   Five of Steenland's key management and technical officers also attended the meeting.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 