USDA GRANTS DELEGATION REQUEST FOR EXTENSION OF MANAGED HAYING DEADLINE
  Sens. Byron Dorgan and Kent Conrad and Rep. Earl Pomeroy announced today that the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) has partially granted their request for an extension of the deadline for managed haying of Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) lands.  
   "We are glad to see that the USDA is now recognizing the impact of the drought in southwest North Dakota," the delegation said. "But this ruling is limited to only 11 counties and falls far short of meeting the needs of all our ranchers." 
   Nearly two weeks ago, the delegation sent a letter to James Little, Administrator of the USDA's Farm Service Agency (FSA), requesting that the September 1 deadline for managed haying of CRP lands be extended to September 15, the final date available for "emergency" authorizations. In the letter, the delegation wrote "a revised deadline is appropriate, especially for producers in southwestern North Dakota suffering from successive years of drought and who must travel some distance to obtain enough forage for the winter." 
   The USDA responded to the delegation's letter, extending the deadline of managed haying of CRP lands by an additional two weeks, but only for 11 counties in southwest North Dakota. 
   "While this extension may help those who use managed haying provisions locally, those ranchers who must travel outside designated counties for their forage didn't receive the relief they needed," the delegation said. "Much more still needs to be done." 
   Senator Dorgan serves on the Senate Appropriations Committee, including the Agriculture Appropriations Subcommittee, and the Senate Commerce Committee. Senator Conrad, ranking member of the Senate Budget Committee, is also a senior member of both the Senate Agriculture Committee and the Senate Finance Committee. Congressman Pomeroy is a member of the Ways and Means and Agriculture Committees.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 