'DRU'S LAW' PASSAGE APPEARS PROMISING, SEN. DORGAN SAYS AT FARGO FIELD HEARING
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) said Saturday at a Senate hearing he convened in Fargo that "Dru's Law," his bill to create a national sex offender registry, has a "strong likelihood" of passing this year.  
   His comments came at the hearing called, Protecting Americans from Sexual Predators: Dru's Law and Other Legislative Proposals, which was held at the Fargo City Commission. 
   Dorgan's bill is named in memory of Dru Sjodin, a young North Dakota woman who was abducted from the parking lot of a Grand Forks shopping mall in November 2003 and later found murdered. "Dru's Law" establishes an online national database that would allow the public to search across state lines for sex offenders. It also calls for increased monitoring of released offenders and would require that states attorneys be notified when a "high-risk" offender is about to be released so the state's attorney can consider whether to petition for continued confinement. 
   Dorgan pointed to support from the Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, Sen. Arlen Specter (R-PA), who cosponsored the bill with Dorgan this year, as a positive sign for getting the bill passed into law this year. He also added, "With a number of high-profile abductions and murders around the country in recent months involving convicted sex offenders, the public has been tragically reminded why it's so important to improve the monitoring of sexual predators." 
   "Protecting the public from high-risk sex offenders is everyone's responsibility," Dorgan said. "Dru's Law establishes the framework for a national registry and enhanced monitoring, but seeing that the public uses the information to make themselves aware of released sex offenders is the next step. And local and state law enforcement officials will play a pivotal role in determining whether a high-risk offender should indeed be released and if so, under what conditions." 
   "I have no doubt that with the commitment shown by everyone at this hearing, 'Dru's Law' will significantly improve public protection from sex offenders and save lives," he said. 
   Similar legislation passed the Senate last year late in the session, but the House did not act on it before adjourning.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 