SEN. DORGAN OUTLINES 2005 VISION FOR RED RIVER VALLEY RESEARCH CORRIDOR
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) Friday outlined his vision for the Red River Valley Research Corridor in 2005. The Research Corridor - Sen. Dorgan's initiative to bring federal research, training and manufacturing contracts to North Dakota - grew in 2004 with more than $60 million in new federal investment in high-technology contracts and funding as well as the dedication of major research facilities at the Corridor's hubs at the University of North Dakota (UND) and North Dakota State University (NDSU).  
   Dorgan also announced three Research Corridor Action Summits to bring scientists, researchers, entrepreneurs and investors together. In February, he will hold a Venture Capital Summit in Fargo to explore new avenues of private funding for Research Corridor projects. Dorgan also will host an Action Summit on polymers and coatings in Fargo in March, and one on hydrogen energy at the Energy and Environmental Research Center (EERC) at UND in April. 
   "2004 was a landmark year for the Research Corridor," said Dorgan. "We're building major new research facilities and expanding research projects well beyond our anchors, UND and NDSU. These facilities will serve as launching pads for major new developments in 2005, and we're going to build on our successes to bring ideas, talent, and capital together to grow a vibrant, high-tech economy for North Dakota in the 21st century." 
   "Looking ahead, I want to see the Research Corridor as a self-sustaining, regional center of technology and innovation that competes with the top technology hubs in the world," Dorgan continued. "In North Dakota, we already have the quality of life and great communities that attract workers and companies, and we're reaching a critical mass of talent and infrastructure to take on some of the nation's most ambitious technology and manufacturing ventures." 
   In 2004, the Research Corridor Coordinating Center opened its doors, and Dorgan hosted Research Corridor Action Summits on radio frequency identification (RFID) technology and biotechnology. Also, major facilities were dedicated to provide a foundation for potentially decades of high-technology projects. In October, NDSU dedicated its Research 2 facility, one of the finest university facilities in the country. Dorgan, a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, secured $17 million in equipment for Research 2 and more than $20 million in research funding for Fiscal Year 2005 alone. Also in 2004, UND School of Medicine and Health Sciences celebrated its new 14,000-square-foot Neuroscience Research Facility, for which Dorgan secured $4 million in federal funding. 
   "Projects at UND and NDSU have created the foundation of a regional economic engine, but the benefits of the Research Corridor will expand well beyond our largest cities and universities," Dorgan said. "In 2005, I'm going to focus on our smaller towns, rural communities, Indian reservations and smaller colleges and universities to help them benefit from the Research Corridor and obtain new funding and contracts." 
   "Business and technology leaders from around the region and the nation are taking notice of the Red River Research Corridor and trying to learn how they can be a part of what Senator Dorgan is developing here in North Dakota," said Delore Zimmerman, Director of the Research Corridor Coordinating Center. "In 2005, we will continue to develop our research infrastructure, find linkages to capital, hold networking events, and focus on the quality-of-life issues that attract scientific and business talent to North Dakota."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Sanjay Talwani, 202/224-2551. 
 
 