SEN. DORGAN, 18 OTHER SENATORS RENEW CALL TO SCRAP CHANGE THAT WOULD HURT BORDER ECONOMY
  U.S. Senator Byron Dorgan and 18 Senate colleagues are calling on Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff to scrap a plan that would create confusion for travelers and hurt the economy of communities near the U.S.-Canada border. The senators sent a letter to Chertoff opposing the plan, which is set to go into effect January 31.
   Dorgan said no benefit to security will result from the Administration's plan to require a birth certificate - or other proof of citizenship - from every American and Canadian who crosses the border by land beginning January 31. Instead, the plan will cause confusion and deter travelers from crossing the border, harming the economy of North Dakota and other border states, he said. 
   Congress passed a law last month that would delay until June 2009 a provision requiring a passport from Americans and Canadians crossing the border. The law was passed to reduce confusion and give the Administration and the public more time to prepare for the change. Shortly afterward, the Administration announced that in the meantime, it would change a long-standing law allowing U.S. and Canadian citizens to simply make an oral declaration of their citizenship at the border.
   Dorgan pointed out that Customs and Border Protection agents have always had the authority to request a birth certificate from American and Canadian travelers if they have any reason to be suspicious. So the change does not actually tighten security requirements; it only gives border agents less flexibility. Dorgan also noted that the Administration has not yet explained how it will verify the authenticity of birth certificates and other documents proving citizenship. Depending on the state, province or locality in which they were issued, U.S. and Canadian birth certificates come in more than 8,000 variations.
   "I am a strong proponent of increasing security at the border. But this is a plan that seems aimed at stifling the economy along the border, not tightening security," Dorgan said. "Congress delayed the passport requirement so the Administration would have the time to get this done right. Instead, they've decided to throw up arbitrary barriers that will discourage people from crossing the border but not make us any safer. That makes no sense to me. I hope Secretary Chertoff will allow common sense to prevail and abandon this plan."
   Dorgan is pushing for a low-cost, $20 "passport card" that could be used in place of a passport when crossing the U.S.-Canada border. The Administration has proposed charging $45 for the cards, but Dorgan said that price is too high. He said a lower-cost card would provide an affordable alternative for families while providing a significant benefit in security.
   The letter was also signed by Senators Patrick Leahy (D-VT), Ted Stevens (R-AK), Chuck Schumer (D-NY), Carl Levin (D-MI), Pete Domenici (R-NM), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Norm Coleman (R-MN), George Voinovich (R-OH), Larry Craig (R-ID), Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), Susan Collins (R-ME), Bernie Sanders (I-VT), Mike Crapo (R-ID), John Sununu (R-NH), Olympia Snowe (R-ME), Patty Murray (D-WA), Sherrod Brown (D-OH) and Chris Dodd (D-CT).
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 