SENS. DORGAN, DODD SAY SENATE SHOULD ENACT WINDFALL PROFITS REBATE PROPOSAL IN WAKE OF EXXON'S RECORD PROFITS
  Sens. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) and Chris Dodd (D-CT) said Monday Congress should enact a windfall profits rebate for consumers from big oil company windfall profits in the wake of Exxon's announcement today that it rang up $36.13 billion in profits last year. That set an all-time record for corporate profits.  
   "I hope this might be a tipping point for Congress," Dorgan said. "I think Congress needs to act to restore some sense of fairness when consumers are struggling to pay 40% to 50% more to heat their homes this winter and are paying $2.20 to $2.50 and more a gallon for gasoline, all at a time when oil companies are taking in the biggest profits in history." 
   The two Senators offered a windfall profits rebate amendment during Senate consideration of the Budget Reconciliation bill last November but the Republican majority rejected it. They said the Exxon profit report makes clear Congress should reconsider that decision. 
   "Consumers have all the pain and the big oil companies have all the gain, and that's simply not fair. Congress can and should move to correct that, and this news just may be the spark that makes it happen," Dorgan said. 
   "I support the rights of American companies to earn a profit but profiteering at the expense of the American consumer is unacceptable. Families across the nation are feeling the pinch not only at the gas pump but also when they open their home heating bills this winter while big oil companies are raking in record profits," said Dodd. "It's time for Congress to enact legislation to inject some fairness into the process. The Windfall Profits Rebate Act would do just that and I urge my colleagues to address this critical issue immediately." 
   The proposal would have put a 50% windfall profits tax on big oil company revenue from sales of oil at more than $40 per barrel. All proceeds from the tax would have been rebated to consumers to help them recoup higher energy costs. Under the plan, companies could avoid paying the tax entirely if they invested those revenues in additional oil exploration and drilling, and/or alternative sources of energy and other projects that would expand energy supplies and help bring prices down and other projects that would expand energy supplies and help bring prices down.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 