DELEGATION URGES AIR FORCE CHIEF TO MAKE GRAND FORKS HOME TO NEW TANKERS
  Sens. Byron Dorgan and Kent Conrad and Rep. Earl Pomeroy today urged Air Force Chief of Staff Gen. T. Michael Moseley to base a fleet of the next generation of air refueling tankers at Grand Forks Air Force Base, and asked him to ensure that current tanker bases are considered equally as the Air Force debates where to base the new aircraft.  
   "As the tanker replacement competition proceeds and the Air Force turns its attention to making choices about where to allocate the new aircraft, we urge you to ensure that current tanker bases compete on an equal and even playing field," the delegation said in a letter to Moseley. 
   The Air Force intends to replace the half-century-old fleet of KC-135 Stratotankers with a new generation of air refueling tankers. Designated the KC-X by the Air Force, 179 new planes are expected to roll off the assembly line starting in 2011. 
   Senators Conrad and Dorgan and Congressman Pomeroy have been pushing the Air Force to base some of the new tankers in Grand Forks. The base is currently home to the 319th Air Refueling Wing, which flies and maintains 38 KC-135s. The Air Force in the past has supported future tanker missions at Grand Forks Air Force Base, declaring that the base would be one of the first to receive the new aerial tanker. 
   In their letter to Moseley, the delegation continued to press the fact that Grand Forks is one of the top bases in the Air Force, highlighting the many advantages the base offers the next aerial refueling tanker fleet. The delegation touted the bases many assets, including its strategic location, infrastructure, growth potential, strong community support, and outstanding performance of base personnel. 
   "There is no better tanker team in the Air Force than the one here in Grand Forks," the delegation said in a joint statement. "We will continue to battle it out in the competition for this new strategic tanker mission. Working together, we hope to welcome the first fleet of the KC-X to the Grand Forks community in the near future."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 