SEN. DORGAN ANNOUNCES NORTH DAKOTAN TO TESTIFY BEFORE SENATE PANEL ON IMPORTANCE OF WOMEN IN SPORTS
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) announced Monday that Lynette Mund, West Fargo High School basketball coach and a former North Dakota State University (NDSU) basketball star, will testify before the Senate Commerce Committee about the advancement of women in sports, particularly in rural regions of the country.  
   Dorgan, a member of the Committee, invited Mund to testify at the hearing this Wednesday, February 1, which is National Women and Girls in Sports Day. Mund, who grew up in Milnor, North Dakota, and excelled as a guard on three NDSU national championship teams, now devotes her time to coaching and setting up basketball camps in southeastern North Dakota. Her success story as a player and coach, as well as her dedication to helping youth discover their potential, makes her an authority on the importance of women and girls in sports, Dorgan said. 
   "Lynette Mund is one of North Dakota's great success stories in sports," Dorgan said. "She grew up in a small town and rose to lead the NDSU basketball team through one of its most successful periods in history. Since then, she has devoted her life to giving the same opportunity to young women by showing them the discipline, challenge and satisfaction that can come from participation in sports. I'm proud that Lynette agreed to represent North Dakota at this hearing." 
   Mund's testimony will focus on the importance of women's athletics and the challenges in extending opportunities to youth in rural areas. Her work has included organizing more than 40 basketball camps in North Dakota and Minnesota, offering an opportunity for girls to participate in sports in a region where athletic opportunities might not otherwise be available. 
   "I am excited and honored to represent the state of North Dakota and women's athletics," Mund said. "Athletics have been very good to me, and I want people to be aware of the importance of them." 
   Mund started as a guard on the 1993, 1994 and 1995 NCAA Division II National Championship basketball teams. During the 1995 season, NDSU went 32-0 and is still the only Division II team to finish a season undefeated. As a student at Milnor High School in 1990, Mund was named North Dakota Miss Basketball.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 