UND WINS RIGHTS TO OPERATE NASA RESEARCH PLANE, SEN. DORGAN SAYS
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) announced Tuesday that the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) has awarded control of its premier DC-8 research aircraft to the Upper Midwest Aerospace Consortium (UMAC) at the University of North Dakota and that the plane will be stationed at the Grand Forks Air Force Base.  
   The five-year partnership reflects the first time NASA has based the plane with a research institution, and "moves UND to the forefront of international scientific research," Dorgan said. 
   The DC-8 serves as an airborne laboratory for the collection of data used in a wide range of atmospheric, environmental, biological and even archeological research missions. The move will lead to the creation of at least a dozen new jobs, as well as countless opportunities for UND students and researchers. UND will receive approximately $4 million a year from NASA to house and maintain the laboratory, along with up to $2.5 million a year for individual missions. 
   "NASA's decision to station the DC-8 at the Grand Forks Air Force Base is terrific news for the entire UND community and really for the whole world, which will no doubt benefit from the research that is to be done there," Dorgan said. "UND now has the opportunity to be part of scientific research on the global scale. NASA's decision to entrust UND with the responsibility of this aircraft is a testament to the skillful people and high-quality research UND has to offer." 
   The plane will move from NASA's Dryden Flight Research Center in Edwards, CA, to Grand Forks in March 2005. Its first mission under UND's oversight is scheduled to begin in June or July of 2005. That mission will launch from Costa Rica and include more than 100 scientists and 25 scientific instruments in a study of hurricane origins. 
   Senator Dorgan, a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, has forged a relationship between NASA and UMAC by earmarking more than $10 million in NASA funds for UMAC since 2002. These earmarks have been leveraged to secure several competitive awards and allowed UMAC to submit a proposal to oversee and operate the DC-8. Dorgan worked closely with NASA officials, the Air Force Base, and Dr. George Seielstad, director of the Northern Great Plains Center for People and the Environment at UMAC, in the effort to bring the plane to UND.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Sanjay Talwani, 202/224-2551.
 
 