NEW GAO REPORT SHOWS NORTH DAKOTA FARMERS, BUSINESSES BEING 'SOAKED' BY RAIL MONOPOLIES
  A new Government Accountability Office (GAO) report requested by Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) found that rail shippers in North Dakota, more than almost anywhere else in the nation, are being soaked by the exorbitant rates charged by railroad monopolies. In fact, the GAO found that although high rail rates are a problem all around the country, no state has a higher percentage of shippers charged the highest possible rate than North Dakota. 
   Dorgan said that our "captive shippers" have no choice but to pay these excessive rail rates, because the official government process set up to challenge them is "inaccessible, expensive, time-consuming, and complex," according to the GAO report.
   The report found that North Dakota is among the four states with the highest percentage of captive shippers, and that captive shippers in the state are increasingly charged the most exorbitant rates. When the GAO searched for instances where railroad monopolies led to unfair rail rates, it had to look no farther than North Dakota. The GAO found that a grain elevator shipping wheat from Minot, North Dakota, to Portland, Oregon, will be forced to pay twice as much as a similar shipment from Sioux Falls, South Dakota, which is served by more than one railroad.
   The report also shows that the Surface Transportation Board's (STB) rate relief process is of little help to shippers who try to challenge monopoly rail rates. Only 10 cases have been filed since 2001, each costing an average of $3 million and lasting more than three years. The report says that a thorough assessment of rail competition and the rates charged to shippers is necessary to ensure that the railroads are not abusing their monopoly position in the market.
   "This new report provides the hard evidence that we're getting soaked with extremely high rail rates," Dorgan said. "It shows very clearly that in states like North Dakota where there is no rail competition, farmers and businesses pay through the nose to get their product to the market. And why isn't the problem solved? Because the rate relief process at the Surface Transportation Board is an empty promise. Our Railroad Competition Act has been blocked for too long by the railroads, and I hope this report provides the fuel we need for Congress to get off its backside and solve this problem."
   Dorgan and a bipartisan group of Senate colleagues introduced the Railroad Competition Act to combat monopolistic practices facing agriculture producers and manufacturers that ship their product via rail and are suffering from exorbitant rail rates. The report can be accessed at http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d0794.pdf.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 