SEN. DORGAN RELEASES GAO REPORT FINDING INADEQUATE HEALTH CARE ON AMERICAN INDIAN RESERVATIONS
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) Friday announced the release of a Government Accountability Office report that shows many hospitals and clinics on American Indian reservations lack the funding needed to serve their communities.  
   Below is the text of Dorgan's statement on the report: 
   TEXT OF STATEMENT BY U.S. SENATOR BYRON DORGAN 
   September 30, 2005
   "The report by the GAO that evaluates Indian Health Care services paints a dismal picture of health care available to Native Americans across the country. 
   "We've long known that the Indian Health Service for Native Americans has been dramatically underfunded for years and this report provides documentation of the failure of Congress and the failure of the administration's Indian Health Service to provide the health care needed by Native Americans. 
   "Many of the facilities inspected by the GAO lack the staff and equipment to offer diagnosis and treatment for things such as arthritis, knee injuries, dental care, behavior health and more. GAO says those needs are purchased with contract care funds, which then were rationed at 12 to 13 facilities because of lack of funds. In fact, five of the 12 facilities were unable to pay for any contract care services that weren't deemed emergency or acutely urgent. 
   "What that means is there are many health conditions that are being faced by Native Americans that are not being treated by the Indian Health Service because of lack of funding. The federal government has trust responsibilities for the health care of Native Americans and this report demonstrates what a miserable job the federal government has done to meet its responsibilities to Indian children and also the elderly, who in many cases, according to this investigation, are denied the health services that they need and that they deserve." 
   "I hope that this is a wake-up call to both the President and the Congress that we have responsibilities that we are not meeting to provide basic health care services to the Native American population through the Indian Health Service." 
   "I intend to continue my fight to the commitment to fund these basic health care services for our Native American population."
 
 