FOREST SERVICE WON'T REISSUE PROPOSED POLICIES THAT WOULD DISRUPT NORTH DAKOTA RANCHING, DELEGATION ANNOUNCES
  Sens. Byron Dorgan and Kent Conrad and Rep. Earl Pomeroy announced today that the U.S. Forest Service is continuing to back away from proposed changes to its grazing policies. During a meeting held in Dorgan's Washington office, U.S. Department of Agriculture Undersecretary Mark Rey indicated the agency will not move forward on controversial changes to their Grazing Handbook that included a number of policy changes, including phasing out base-property leasing and share-cattle agreements. 
   "Clearly, the message is being heard loud and clear that the Forest Service must listen to its stakeholders and develop grazing policies that work for North Dakota," the delegation said in a joint statement.
   Last month, Dorgan and Pomeroy held a field hearing in Bismarck in an effort to give local ranchers an opportunity to voice their concerns about the Forest Service's move to restrict grazing permits by imposing these new policies without first talking to the public. After the hearing, the Forest Service temporarily withdrew the policies. Today, Rey indicated they would not be reissued.
   Rey also announced that the agency is proposing to undertake a "demonstration project" that would test and evaluate various grazing management policies on the Dakota Prairie Grasslands. The project would create a working group made up of grazing association officials, local ranchers, and local, state and federal officials whose goal would be to develop long-term policies to govern how ranchers graze their cattle on public lands. The delegation said they are skeptical of the Forest Service's proposal for the demonstration project and will monitor its progress closely.
   "We need to promote collaboration and find a way to manage the Dakota Prairie Grasslands effectively. However, any proposal offered by the Forest Service must be carefully analyzed for its benefits as well as any potential harm," the delegation said.
   "As we have recently witnessed, the Forest Service lacks a lot of credibility when it comes to implementing grazing management practices in our state. Within the last month we have seen this agency abandon interim directives that were put in place without consulting local officials when they could not justify their implementation. We will continue to oppose any back-door attempt to put policies in place that will adversely affect communities and ranchers in our state."
 
 