SEN. DORGAN ANNOUNCES FARM PAYMENT DATABASE IS 'FINALLY COMPLETE'
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) announced today that after four years of foot-dragging, the U.S. Department of Agriculture finally has heeded a directive in the 2002 Farm Bill and created a database of farm payments - a move that could have a significant impact on the debate over much-needed payment limitation legislation, Dorgan said.  
   Until now, Dorgan said, USDA was unable to track the ultimate recipients of farm payments to cooperatives or corporate farming operations. The 2002 Farm Bill required USDA to establish a system to track these farm payments. Dorgan said that each year, millions of dollars in farm payments go to a small percentage of recipients, straining the farm program that was intended to support family farmers. 
   Dorgan said he and Senator Chuck Grassley (R-IA) recently learned from USDA that the farm payment database was complete when the agency responded to a letter the two Senators sent in November, asking about USDA's progress on creating the system. 
   Dorgan and Grassley have for years fought for tighter farm payment limits, and during the 2002 Farm Bill led the effort to require USDA to create this database. Dorgan said the database will provide him and Senator Grassley with new evidence that corporate mega-farms are benefiting disproportionately from the farm program, which is aimed to help small, family farmers cope with tough market conditions. He hopes to use that evidence to help make the case for tightening farm payment limits when he and Grassley take up the effort again this year. 
   "For years, USDA has been unable to follow farm payments past the front door of the cooperative or the corporate farm," Dorgan said. "With this database, we can track every dollar the farm program pays out. This will shed some much-needed light on our farm programs, and I hope help us pass legislation on payment limits this year."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 