N.D. LEADERS PUSH DOD FOR ADDITIONAL MISSIONS AT MINOT
  Sens. Byron Dorgan and Kent Conrad and Rep. Earl Pomeroy today led a delegation of Minot city leaders to the Pentagon for meetings with top military officials to discuss the future of Minot Air Force Base and propose new missions for the air base. 
   The delegation met with Lt. Gen. Arthur Lichte, Assistant Vice Chief of Staff for the Air Force, a key figure in the assigning of aircraft and missions to installations. General Lichte spoke of the Air Force's pride in Minot Air Force Base and the outstanding support which the community has long offered to the airmen stationed there. "Minot is an enduring base for the Air Force," he said.  
   One major topic of discussion with Lichte was the Pentagon's plan to retire the "attrition reserve" of B-52 bombers, 17 of which are assigned to Minot Air Force Base. In the meeting, the congressional delegation stressed the strategic importance of maintaining the nation's fleet of 94 B-52s and warned that reducing the fleet would weaken the nation's military preparedness by diminishing America's ability to respond to future threats. 
   Last year, Congress enacted a law blocking any B-52 retirements until the completion of a comprehensive Bomber Roadmap study. In addition, Congress passed legislation blocking the reduction of the B-52 fleet below 76 active aircraft until the development of the next generation bomber, currently planned for 2018 at the earliest. 
   "The simple fact is that reducing the number of bombers below the current level would increase our nation's vulnerability, especially if we have to respond to another threat abroad," the delegation said. 
   A representative of the Air National Guard informed the delegation that the Pentagon had given final sign-off to a plan to establish a new Air National Guard security forces squadron in Minot. The unit will include 140 uniformed personnel and will begin operations later this year. Hiring of Guard personnel is expected to begin in April, and the unit will rapidly become the largest security forces squadron in the entire Air National Guard. This new unit will augment the active duty Air Force security forces already assigned to Minot, which will remain at their current size. 
   "Adding Air National Guard security forces to Team Minot is a tremendous plus for the base," the delegation said. "Not only does it add a significant number of new jobs to Minot, it is the first unit of its kind in the Air Force. Having this unit will be a key advantage for Minot in any head-to-head comparison with other missile bases." 
   In addition, the delegation and Minot leaders met with Maj. Gen. Roger Burg, the Air Force's Director of Strategic Security, to discuss plans for modernizing the nation's Minuteman III Intercontinental Ballistic Missile (ICBM) force - 150 of which are based at Minot Air Force Base. 
   "With all the hotspots around the globe right now, this is no time to let our guard down. Maintaining and modernizing the ICBM force is vital to deterring aggression from rogue nations," the delegation said. 
   Previously, the Pentagon had recommended retiring 50 Minuteman from the nation's ICBM force. The congressional delegation fought successfully to preserve the ICBM mission for Minot. The Air Force has announced plans to retire 50 missiles at Malmstrom Air Force Base in Montana. The delegation also succeeded in getting a law passed to require the Air Force to upgrade enough of those retired missiles to ensure that the Air Force has sufficient launch test missiles to last them through 2030. 
   Joining the delegation to represent the city of Minot at the meeting were Mayor Curt Zimbelman, John MacMartin, Mark Jantzer, Dick White, Bruce Carlson, and Pete Zimmerman.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 