SEN. DORGAN REACTS TO ADMINISTRATION PROPOSALS FOR NEW FARM BILL
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) issued a statement Wednesday on the Administration's proposals for the new Farm Bill. 
   The text of the statement follows. 
   TEXT OF STATEMENT BY SENATOR BYRON DORGAN 
   January 31, 2007 
   "The Administration's proposals for the new Farm Bill include some ideas that have merit, such as funding to increase renewable energy production, which we have pushed to reduce our dependence on foreign oil and bring economic development to North Dakota. 
   "Overall, I'm disappointed that they are once again trying to whittle away at the farm safety net, and ignored the pressing need for disaster aid and country-of-origin labeling. 
   "Last year I traveled around the state visiting with producers about what they'd like to see in a new Farm Bill. It seems clear to me that with the recent weather-related disasters, skyrocketing energy prices, and passage of more trade deals, it is more important now than ever to have a strong safety net to protect our family farmers. 
   "Some of these proposals could dangerously undercut and underfund that safety net, and I will work in Congress to make sure those are not included. 
   "I will also press Congress to include legislation I introduced that would re-establish a permanent disaster aid program under the Farm Bill. The opposition to disaster aid we've faced from the President in the last two years has made clear that we need to make this a permanent program again so we don't have to rely on ad hoc legislation. 
   "I will also be pressing to put country-of-origin labeling in place. We label our T-shirts, shorts and shoes. The least we can do is let people know where the meat on their dinner plate comes from. The Administration has been dragging its feel but I'll continue to fight tooth and nail to get COOL implemented. 
   "While this proposal offers some resources, it fails to meet the needs for American family farmers."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 