SENS. DORGAN, SNOWE TAKE PUSH FOR DRUG IMPORTATION TO SENATE FLOOR
  Sens. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) and Olympia Snowe (R-ME) were blocked on the Senate floor Monday when they attempted to bring up an amendment that would have allowed importation of lower priced prescription drugs from Canada and other highly developed countries. They were attempting to offer the amendment to S. 3711, the Energy bill. 
   The two lawmakers said they offered their amendment directly on the floor to spur Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist to schedule a vote on allowing importation of lower priced prescription medicines. Frist has made this commitment in two separate Congresses, but as of yet that promise is yet to be fulfilled.
   On March 11, 2004, the first pledge came in exchange for Dorgan's lifting of a hold he had placed on the nomination of Mark McClellan to become Administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. No vote was ever scheduled.
   In July 2005, Frist told Senator Vitter (R-OK) he would bring the issue to the floor if an amendment on importation achieved a 60 vote support. The Senate met that condition on July 11, 2006, when it adopted the Vitter-Nelson amendment on a 68-32 vote. No vote has been scheduled.
   "It's simply unfair for American citizens to be charged the highest prices in the world for prescription drugs," Dorgan said. "The time has come for action."
   "While a drug can be safe and effective, what good is it if you can't afford it? Today, with seven out of ten Americans believing the ban on prescription drug importation should be lifted; the time has come for the Senate to act," said Snowe. "It is simply not fair that Americans pay $87 billion more for their medications than in other industrialized countries. Competition must be allowed in the market for prescription drugs - it could bring in significant savings of $50 billion over 10 years according to CBO. If we move forward with this amendment, the American people will see that competition will result in reduced costs and improved health for millions."
   The Congressional Budget Office has confirmed that brand-name drugs cost, on average, 35-55 percent less in other industrialized nations than they do in the United States. Many of those drugs are manufactured in the same plants, by the same companies as drugs sold in the United States.
   The drug companies reserve the right to import lower-priced medicines from other countries into the United States and sell them, but have opposed efforts to allow U.S. pharmacists and other licensed distributors to do the same.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 