SEN. DORGAN CALLS FOR AGGRESSIVE INITIATIVE TO EXPAND AVAILABILITY OF RENEWABLE FUELS
  U.S. Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND) called Tuesday for dramatic policy changes to expand the availability of renewable fuels in North Dakota and across the nation. He chaired an Energy Subcommittee hearing to examine the infrastructure challenges and to identify what policy changes are needed to support the transportation, distribution and consumption of ethanol and other renewable fuels. 
   "There are 16,000 flexible-fuel vehicles on the road and only 23 E-85 pumps in North Dakota," said Dorgan. "The Senate has passed legislation to increase the production of renewable fuels by seven fold in the next 15 years. But if we don't have the infrastructure in place like flexible-fuel vehicles and renewable fuels pumps to absorb all this new ethanol, we could be left with lots of undistributed fuel and have a collapse in the market."
   "Big oil companies are contributing to the problem by placing barriers in their franchise agreements that discourage retail gas stations from offering E-85 fuel, while at the same time seeing record profits. Policy changes must be made to expedite the infrastructure development, which will have a profound impact on the ethanol market in North Dakota and the rest of the country."
   "The U.S. transportation sector consumes about 140 billion gallons of gasoline each year. Sixty percent of the oil imported to the U.S. each year is required to meet that demand. If we are to make any real progress toward greater energy independence, it is clear we need some real changes in how the transportation sector uses energy. That's going to require significant improvement in the infrastructure available for the use of renewable fuels."
   Senator Dorgan worked to pass legislation in June to increase the Renewable Fuels Standard to require refineries to produce and use at least 36 billion gallons of renewable fuels by 2022. With this new legislation in place along with the existing incentives for ethanol, Senator Dorgan believes that North Dakota has the capability to produce as much as 1 billion gallons of renewable fuels annually within five years.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 