SEN. DORGAN APPLAUDS DOD ANNOUNCEMENT THAT COULD BRING NEW FLYING MISSION TO FARGO AS EARLY AS 2010
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) Friday applauded the announcement by the U.S. Department of Defense that the Air Force will move forward with the procurement of new Joint Cargo Aircraft and begin flying the planes, some of which will be stationed with Fargo's 119th Fighter Wing, by 2010. The Army is expected to start deploying its Joint Cargo Aircraft by 2008. 
   Dorgan said that while we don't yet have a specific schedule for the aircraft's deployment to Fargo, the announcement is a sign that the deployment is moving forward. The Army and Air Force currently plan to deploy about 145 of the planes, which will be used to provide airlift in locations such as Iraq and Afghanistan and between sites within the United States.
   The text of Dorgan's statement is below.
   TEXT OF STATEMENT BY SENATOR BYRON DORGAN
   March 31, 2006
   "For the first time, the Pentagon has announced the procurement schedule for the Joint Cargo Aircraft, some of which will be stationed in Fargo. That's good news because it means the plan to bring a new flying mission to the Happy Hooligans is moving forward. We don't have a specific schedule for the aircraft coming to Fargo, but at least this shows their deployment is moving forward.
   "Earlier this week, the Air Force Chief of Staff, Gen. T. Michael Moseley, told me he approves of plans to bring C-130s to Fargo soon as a 'bridge' to the arrival of the Joint Cargo Aircraft.
   "When news came that the Defense Department wanted to retire the Happy Hooligans' F-16 fighter planes, I and the rest of the congressional delegation worked countless hours to make sure the Air Force understands that it would be a mistake for this country not to give the world's best pilots a flying mission. The new Joint Cargo Aircraft will be an important mission that will support operations in places like Iraq and Afghanistan, and it's good for Fargo and the state of North Dakota that the mission is falling into place."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 