SEN. DORGAN TO OFFER AGRICULTURE DISASTER BILL AS AMENDMENT TO EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) announced today he will offer an amendment in the Senate Appropriations Committee to attach a disaster relief package for American farmers and ranchers to an emergency supplemental bill to fund the costs of the Iraq war and Hurricane Katrina relief, which the committee will consider Tuesday. 
   Dorgan said he is hopeful the Committee, of which he is a member, will approve the legislation, which he also has sponsored as a stand-alone bill with a bipartisan group of 24 other senators including Senator Kent Conrad (D-ND). Because the emergency supplemental includes funding for hurricane recovery in the Gulf Coast, it is a natural fit for the agriculture disaster legislation that will assist producers whose crops or livestock were damaged by weather-related disasters, he said.
   "Our farmers and ranchers in North Dakota and across the country faced devastating weather conditions last year, and we need to act to bring them some relief and help families stay on the farm," Dorgan said. "I support helping producers who were affected by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, but we also have an obligation to help family farmers and ranchers across the country whose crops and livestock were affected by severe weather."
   Dorgan offered a farm disaster amendment to a defense spending bill last December. It was approved by the Senate conferees but rejected by conferees from the U.S. House of Representatives.
   Dorgan said the legislation would assist producers who have lost or suffered damage to crops, livestock and livestock feed supplies. It also provides assistance to offset the high cost of energy and fertilizer.
   Dorgan said he has been working with other members of the Appropriations Committee to get support for the proposal. A protracted drought in some parts of the country and flooding in other areas is persuading more legislators of the need for an agriculture disaster program, he said.
   The legislation would be a significant boost for producers in North Dakota, where torrential rains in the summer of 2005 prevented planting of more than 1 million acres, Dorgan said. Another one-half million acres that was planted was destroyed by those rains.
   "Those farmers who lost their entire crop need our help and I am going to continue to push until we get this done," Dorgan said. "We can help our farmers and ranchers for the cost of just the crumbs falling off the table from our work in Iraq and Afghanistan, and I think it's time that we got the job done here at home."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 