SEN. DORGAN ISSUES STATEMENT ON RECALL OF TOYS MANUFACTURED IN CHINA
  U.S. Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND) issued the following statement Friday, reacting to news that yet another recall of contaminated products from China has been initiated. Dorgan is Chairman of the U.S. Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Trade. 
   The text of Dorgan's statement follows:
   STATEMENT BY
   U.S. SENATOR BYRON DORGAN (D-ND)
   On the Recall of Toys Manufactured in China
   August 3, 2007
   Washington, D.C.
   "Yesterday another toy manufacturer announced it is recalling products imported from China. Fisher-Price is recalling 83 types of toys, including the popular Big Bird, Elmo, Dora and Diego characters, because their paint contains excessive amounts of lead. The recall covers nearly 1 million toys. This is one more alarming example to add to the list of products manufactured in China that have later been found to be contaminated.
   "The products have put America's children at risk. The recalls have given thousands of parents great concern. And while the President has put together a Task Force to study this issue, the reality is that families are facing one recall after the next.
   "This issue here is not overseas production," said Dorgan. "The issue is that these products are manufactured outside of our ability to regulate and ensure safe products. We insist on safety measures for production within the United States. Imported products are not meeting these safety standards - and no one knows about it until after the products have reached the store shelves of the U.S. marketplace and the living rooms of American families."
   "We can and should work to implement safeguards such as increased factory investigations without prior notice and thorough product reviews before products enter the market. It strikes me that, currently, we are facing an unacceptably high risk with these products from China."
   "The Consumer Product Safety Commission testified before the Senate Commerce Committee just this month, responding to the concerns about lead paint in Thomas the Tank engine among other contaminated products. And now, we have to deal with a recall of Big Bird, Elmo, Dora and Diego. My children are well passed the target age for these toys, but as a parent I sympathize with what mothers and fathers are going through, concerned about their children's health and fearful of what should be harmless products."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 