SEN. DORGAN SAYS CONTINUATION OF PILOT MEXICAN TRUCK PROGRAM WOULD VIOLATE THE LAW
  U.S. Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND) took strong issue Thursday with the announcement by the U.S. Department of Transportation last week that it would continue the pilot program allowing Mexican long-haul trucks into the United States - despite a provision in law authored by Dorgan that shuts that pilot program down. 
   In a letter to Secretary of Transportation Mary Peters, Dorgan said the Administration's statement that it will continue the pilot program - despite a law enacted last month scrapping it - is both arrogant and wrong. Dorgan authored the provision that shuts down the Mexican long-haul truck pilot program. It was approved as part of the Transportation Appropriations bill and it prohibits the Administration from continuing the program. 
   "There are not equivalent safety standards dealing with Mexican trucks and drivers, including the sharing of safety inspections, drivers' records and accident reports between the U.S. and Mexico," Dorgan said. "Until that time, allowing long-haul Mexican trucks into this country increases risks on the American roadway. That's the reason Congress has adopted my amendment prohibiting the pilot program."
   Dorgan said what appears to be the Administration's intentional misinterpretation of that amendment flies in the face of established law, precedent and the facts. As evidence, he presented a letter from the U.S. Senate Legislative Counsel, which drafted the amendment, reaffirming the amendment's intent to prevent the pilot program from continuing. He also noted that the record of the Senate debate clearly shows that senators - both those in favor and opposed - agreed the amendment would put an end to any pilot program bringing Mexican long-haul trucks into the United States.
   Dorgan said before the Administration started the program last September, their own Inspector General said the United States does not have adequate access to vehicle inspections, accident reports or drivers' records dealing with Mexican long-haul trucking. Until those records exist and equivalent standards are developed, there should not be a pilot program with Mexican long-haul trucks entering the United States, Dorgan said.
   If the Department of Transportation continues the pilot program that began last September, it will be clearly and directly in violation of federal law, Dorgan asserted in his letter to Secretary Peters.
   Dorgan called on the Secretary and the Department of Transportation to end the pilot program allowing long-haul Mexican trucks on American roads, just as the law now requires them to do.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 