FEDERAL EMERGENCY CHIEF TO VISIT DEVILS LAKE
  Sens. Byron Dorgan and Kent Conrad, Rep. Earl Pomeroy and Gov. John Hoeven announced today that the nation's emergency chief has accepted their invitation to personally come to North Dakota and observe the Devils Lake flood crisis.  
   Michael Brown, Under Secretary for Emergency Preparedness and Response at the Department of Homeland Security, accepted the invitation a day after the delegation and the governor pressed him to see firsthand the devastation in the Devils Lake basin wrought by the lake's rising waters. 
   Devils Lake has reached its highest levels in more than 130 years and is dangerously close to overtaking the lake levee. Brown, who oversees the Federal Emergency Management Agency, has been urged by the delegation and the governor to aid the Devils Lake community with raising roads above the floodwaters, relocating homes and raising the height of the lake levee. 
   "This is an urgent situation and those at the highest levels of government agencies with responsibility for dealing with it need to see it personally," Senator Dorgan said. "I'm pleased the Under Secretary has accepted our invitation and I am hopeful that he will understand the urgency as he works with the several federal agencies that will need to be involved in preventing a disaster from the rising waters of Devils Lake." 
   "It's critical that Under Secretary Brown see for himself that this is a runaway lake. The best way to cut through the red tape and get the federal bureaucracy to respond is to get out there to see the threat firsthand," Senator Conrad said. "We need to move as quickly as possible." 
   "Devils Lake flooding is at a crisis point, and FEMA needs to take the lead in coordinating the many federal agencies working on this situation," Congressman Pomeroy said. "An up close and personal view of the circumstances facing Devils Lake will help Under Secretary Brown understand the gravity of Devils Lake flooding." 
   "The residents of the Devils Lake basin need help, and that means everyone has to work together at the state, federal and local levels," said Gov. Hoeven. "Under Secretary Mike Brown, the Army Corps of Engineers, and other federal officials need to join with us in implementing our comprehensive, three-part flood prevention and response plan. That includes storing water in the upper basin; continuing to mitigate by raising roads and dikes; and building an outlet on Devils Lake."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 