BUSH BUDGET WILL CUT $11 MILLION FROM HOMELAND SECURITY FOR NORTH DAKOTA
  President George W. Bush is proposing to cut $11 million in homeland security funds for North Dakota in order to shift the funds to states with more population. A cut of that magnitude would amount to the loss of about 75% of homeland defense funds the state will receive in grants in Fiscal Year 2004.  
   U.S. Senator Byron Dorgan is strongly objecting to the cut in North Dakota homeland defense funds, which he says is "ill-advised." The plan is part of an overall shift in the allocation of homeland defense funds away from rural states to more urban states. 
   "This doesn't make a much sense," Dorgan said Thursday. "It is a policy that contains a pretty obvious bias against rural states that is not justified by the facts. Terrorist threats exist in rural America, just as they exist in urban America. We have major roadways, bridges, dams and power plants that make tempting targets, especially if terrorists have a sense that they are somehow less defended than sites in our major cities. In North Dakota, we also have a several hundred mile international border to guard in order to know who is entering our country." 
   "We need to defend possible targets and we also need to make absolutely certain that if, God forbid, terrorists do strike in rural America, first responders are just as ready to respond as those in any other part of the country." 
   "We have a responsibility to secure the country against terrorist threats. If big cities need more protection than they are getting now, then let the President's budget reflect that greater need, but don't pay for it by failing to secure rural areas. The $11 million the President proposes taking from North Dakota would mean an additional one dollar per person for the state of New York. That doesn't buy you much. The cost to North Dakota's homeland security effort, however, would be devastating." 
   Dorgan, a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, said he will work to block the shift as the FY 2005 budget moves through Congress. "All Americans need and deserve greater homeland security protection. This shouldn't be a function of whether you live in the big city or in the countryside."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 