SEN. DORGAN RELEASES GAO STUDY THAT FINDS HUNDREDS OF MILLIONS OF DOLLARS IN COURT-ORDERED RESTITUTION GOES UNCOLLECTED
  Sen. Byron Dorgan is urging new Attorney General Alberto Gonzales to get "tough on crime" when it comes to collecting fines and court-ordered restitution imposed against criminals. Dorgan released a new Government Accountability Office (GAO) investigation report Thursday that found little has been done to collect hundreds of millions of dollars in court-ordered restitution from white- collar criminals who continue to live in luxury.  
   The study is a follow up to a GAO study Dorgan released last year which found that uncollected criminal fines and restitution had nearly doubled in just three years from $13 billion to $25 billion. 
   The new study is a review by the GAO of five specific cases involving white- collar crime in which the courts ordered $568 million in restitution to crime victims. According to the GAO, only about 7 percent of those funds have been collected. 
   Some of the criminals involved, however, continue to live in luxury - residing in million dollar homes and even traveling overseas while on supervised release. 
   The GAO said the criminals converted hundreds of millions of dollars of ill-gotten gains to personal use before their judgments. They also transferred assets to relatives and placed assets in trusts and corporations to shield those funds. 
   "Being tough on crime doesn't mean very much if we aren't serious about enforcing court ordered fines and restitution," Dorgan said. "We simply must do better. 
   Dorgan said he is sharing a copy of the new GAO investigation's findings and recommendations with the Attorney General Alberto Gonzales. "I hope that in your new capacity, you will motivate the Department to effectively ramp up its criminal debt collection and put an end to the bureaucratic foot dragging," Dorgan wrote in a letter to Gonzales he released along with the report. "Victims of crime - and taxpayers - deserve no less." 
   To view the GAO report, go to: http://dorgan.senate.gov/newsroom/extras/debtcollection030205.PDF.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Sanjay Talwani, 202-224-2551.
 
 