PRESIDENT'S BUDGET WOULD COST NORTH DAKOTA FAMILY FARMERS
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) today released a new study that North Dakota family farmers would lose thousands of dollars in farm payments under the federal budget proposed by the President. Dorgan, a member of the Senate Agriculture Appropriations Committee, requested the analysis of the President's budget proposal from the nonpartisan Congressional Research Service (CRS). The analysis showed that if the President's budget had been in effect in 2004, three model North Dakota farms would have received about $4,000 to $9,000 less in 2004-a decrease in farm payments of 16 to 29 percent.  
   "The President's budget would hit North Dakota family farmers hard," Dorgan said. "This budget would slice their thin profit margins even thinner, or wipe them out completely. Agriculture spending didn't cause these massive deficits, the President's massive tax cuts for the wealthy did. It's not fair for the President to balance his budget on the backs of our family farmers." The CRS analyzed three representative North Dakota farms of 900 to 1,000 acres growing different crops. One farm-growing 500 acres each of corn and soybeans-would have suffered a 29 percent decrease in farm payments under the Bush plan. 
   Dorgan said that the President's budget includes several harsh cuts to agriculture spending. The President has proposed making loan payments on only 85 percent of a farm's historical production, and not on its actual yields. This is despite the fact that historical yields are often much lower than a farm's actual level of production. Additionally, the President has called for a five percent across-the-board cut in all farm payments, including direct payments, marketing loan payments, and counter-cyclical payments. 
   Dorgan said the effect of the Bush cuts could be even worse than the CRS analysis suggests, because crop prices were relatively good in 2004 and many producers did not receive the counter-cyclical payments they would receive when prices drop. 
   "Family farmers know that farm programs can make the difference between survival and bankruptcy," Dorgan said. "The President's proposed cuts would have a disastrous effect on families and communities across America. I hope Members of Congress will join with me in rejecting these ill-advised cuts and make sure that family farmers get the support they need and deserve."
   To view the CRS report, go to: http://dorgan.senate.gov/newsroom/extras/crsanalysis.PDF.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Sanjay Talwani, 202-224-2551.
 
 