SEN. DORGAN INTRODUCES BILL TO PRESSURE USDA TO IMPLEMENT COUNTRY OF ORIGIN LABELING
  In the wake of reports that yet another Canadian cow has been found to have BSE, or "Mad Cow Disease," Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) introduced legislation Thursday that would prevent the U.S. Department of Agriculture from expanding imports of Canadian cattle until the agency implements a system that allows consumers to see in which country their meat was produced.  
   That system, known as Country of Origin Labeling (COOL) was scheduled, by law, to be in place by September 30, 2004. The Bush Administration, however, has delayed its implementation several times. It is now not scheduled to be in place until September 30, 2008. 
   Currently cattle from Canada younger than 30 months, and boxed beef are allowed to enter this country. In January, the Bush Administration proposed allowing animals older than 30 months to enter the U.S.sometime later this year. 
   "There is no longer any excuse for delaying implementation of COOL," Dorgan said Thursday. "Consumers have the right to know where their meat is coming from, and to make their own decision - fully informed decisions - about whether they want to be putting beef from Canada on their dinner table, under the current circumstances. It is clear that Canada has a continuing problem with Mad Cow Disease, and American families have a right to know whether their beef is coming from Canada." 
   "This eleventh case of BSE in Canada is just the latest in a series of warning signs USDA has chosen to ignore," Dorgan said. "It makes no sense to move forward so quickly with this plan to resume imports of Canadian beef when it poses such a clear risk to an important industry here in America." 
   "I feel bad that the Canadians are having problems, but we have an obligation to look after our own beef industry first, and I'm going to keep pushing to make sure this decision is based on sound science, not politics." 
   Senators Kent Conrad (D-ND) and Mike Enzi (R-WY) joined Dorgan as co-sponsors.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 