DELEGATION SECURES NEARLY $20 MILLION FOR AGRICULTURE RESEARCH IN NORTH DAKOTA
  Sens. Byron Dorgan and Kent Conrad and Rep. Earl Pomeroy announced Thursday that Congress approved an Agriculture Appropriations bill that directs nearly $20 million to research projects in North Dakota.  
   The delegation secured funding in the bill for research supporting agriculture and other rural issues - including methods to improve the production of grains, the use of Devils Lake water in irrigation, and a study at North Dakota State University into food safety issues such as agro-terrorism. The legislation is win-win for North Dakota, the delegation said - supporting the state's growing research sector as well as its dominant industry of agriculture. 
   "The Congress's support for these projects is a testament to our state's growing reputation as a hub for quality research," said Dorgan, who helped secure the funding as a member of the conference committee that negotiated the bill's final version. "This work will help family farmers and ranchers across the country do their jobs more efficiently and effectively." 
   "North Dakota is the agricultural center for the nation. That fact is evident by the $20 million in funding that the federal government is investing in agricultural research projects in our state," said Conrad, a senior member of the Senate Agriculture Committee. "I am proud to say that America's farming future is being developed in North Dakota." 
   "North Dakota is leading the nation in agricultural research and now our universities and federal research stations will have the support to continue that ground-breaking research," said Pomeroy, who is a member of the House Agriculture Committee. "This research benefits all corners of the agricultural community in North Dakota and the state as a whole." 
   Specific projects include: 
   Fargo Agriculture Research Service (ARS)
  $4.67 million
  This funding will be used to improve wheat, barley and oat production in the Great Plains region. The bill also restores funding for a research position aimed at studying Canada Thistle and assisting the National Sclerotinia Initiative. 
   Griggs-Steele Empowerment Zone The bill continues funding for empowerment zones. A portion of the $11.2 million set aside will be used to continue implementation of the Griggs-Steele Empowerment Zone's strategic economic development plan. 
   Bison Purchase
  $3 million
  The bill includes funds to purchase bison meat from Native American producers and cooperative organizations, such as the North American Bison Cooperative in New Rockford. The meat is used by food distribution programs that supply food to low- and moderate-income people on American Indian reservations. 
   Agriculture Diversification Project - Northern Great Plains, Inc.
  $622,000
  The bill includes funds to conduct applied research aimed at finding alternatives to crops grown currently in North Dakota, Minnesota and South Dakota, as well as additional ways to grow and process them. 
   Mandan Agricultural Research Service (ARS) and the Upper Midwest Aerospace Consortium
  $552,571
  The bill funds development of the livestock feeding industry's effort to add value to crops and animals through the Southwest Feeders Program at the Hettinger Research Extension Center, and its continued use of satellite technology to help producers in the Upper Midwest make better decisions about the use of their land. 
   Great Plains Rural Health Initiative - Grand Forks ARS
  $915,000
  The bill restores funding cuts and supports several pilot studies on rural health problems related to the diet among those living in the Northern Great Plains. It pays particular attention to the diets of Native Americans and the rural elderly through the use of a Mobile Nutrition Laboratory. This funding also includes $400,000 for a new initiative that will examine the long-term effects of obesity. 
   Healthier Beef Initiative at the Grand Forks Human Nutrition Lab
  $210,000
  The bill secures funding for the Grand Forks Human Nutrition Lab, in conjunction with the Northern Great Plains Research ARS Laboratory in Mandan, to work on a healthy beef initiative related to the production of flax-fed beef at the University of North Dakota (UND) and North Dakota State University (NDSU). 
   Devils Lake Water Utilization
  $350,000
  The bill includes funding for the final phase of an irrigation test project that transfers water from Devils Lake to area farmers, adding value to their cropland and taking pressure off the rising lake. 
   Blackbird Control
  $380,000
  The bill provides funding for the U.S. Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) to minimize the damage to sunflowers caused by blackbirds in North Dakota and South Dakota. 
   North Dakota State University (NDSU) projects: 
   NDSU/Dickinson State University Wildlife Disease Surveillance
  $1.85 million
  The bill includes funds for remote animal diagnostic and disease surveillance activities in the western range region in Dickinson and Hettinger. 
   Food Safety Initiative
  $1.425 million
  The bill includes funding for research at NDSU into current and emerging food safety issues, including risks to the U.S. food supply from unintentional or intentional (agro-terrorism) acts. 
   Cool Season Food Legume Research Program
  $564,000
  The bill aims to improve plant genetics and crop management, and to develop new uses for peas, lentils and chickpeas. 
   Value-Added Ruminant Animal Consortia
  $494,000
  The bill funds a project with South Dakota, Wyoming and Montana aimed at providing new information and technology that will improve techniques in livestock production and management. The project will be run by a consortium of land grant universities, including NDSU. 
   Potato Research
  $1.497 million
  The bill funds a multi-state research program aimed at improving genetic resistance to pests, reducing the need for pesticides, lowering farmers' costs, and reducing consumers' concerns about pesticides. 
   Weed Control
  $384,000
  The bill provides funds for NDSU to research methods to control invasive weeds. 
   Bio-based Nanowhisker Research
  $177,000
  The bill helps to develop bio-based cellulose "nanowhiskers" for the production of advanced materials used in the transportation, automotive, pharmaceutical and construction industries. 
   Center for Agriculture Policy and Trade Studies 
  $148,000
  The bill secures funds to analyze the impact of trade agreements such as the Central American Free Trade Agreement (CAFTA) on agricultural producers and rural economies. 
   Regional Center for Rural Development
  $115,000
  This funding will support research that is useful for understanding the economic development challenges rural communities face in the Upper Great Plains and how federal policy can promote positive results. 
   Energy and Environmental Research Center (EERC) at UND projects: 
   Water Quality in the Northern Great Plains
  $500,000
  The bill provides funds to continue research on the groundwater impacts of agricultural chemicals. 
   Alternative Fuels Characterization Laboratory
  $282,000
  The bill helps to develop new products from agricultural residuals, incorporate waste reduction and recycling technologies with fuel production, and formulate clean fuels.
 
 