DELEGATION DEDICATES NEW FOUR BEARS BRIDGE
  Sens. Kent Conrad and Byron Dorgan and Rep. Earl Pomeroy were joined by tribal, state and local leaders today for a ceremony to celebrate the opening of the new Four Bears Bridge.  
   "The new Four Bears Bridge is truly impressive. It is a powerful symbol of the cooperative spirit that unites the MHA Nation," the delegation said on a joint statement. "And it was a united effort -- among tribal, local and national leaders -- that helped this project become a reality." 
   After half a century of use, the old Four Bears Bridge was deemed unsuitable for modern traffic. With the support of tribal leaders, the Congressional delegation worked to get the federal government to fund construction costs for a new bridge. The delegation was successful in securing $35 million in the FY2001 Transportation Appropriations Bill for constructing a new bridge. 
   "We knew that the bridge had to be replaced. And we knew that the federal government had a responsibility to take the lead in providing funding," the delegation said. 
   Construction on the new bridge -- the largest bridge project in state history -- began in 2003. It was completed after two years of construction and opened to traffic last month. The new bridge is more than twice the width of the old bridge and spans nearly one mile across Lake Sakakawea on Highway 23. It is the only link between the west and east sides of the Fort Berthold Indian Reservation, which were separated when the federal government constructed the Garrison Dam, creating Lake Sakakawea. 
   At the ribbon-cutting ceremony today, the delegation took time to pay a special tribute to Levi Grant, a young Mandaree man who was killed last year during construction of the bridge. 
   "This bridge is more than a structure. It also serves as a way to preserve an important link to the heritage of the Mandan, Hidatsa, and Arikara tribes," the delegation said. "We must see this bridge as an important link to our past but also a gateway to the future for both North Dakota and the MHA Nation." 
   Senator Conrad, ranking member of the Senate Budget Committee, is a senior member of both the Senate Agriculture Committee and the Senate Finance Committee. Senator Dorgan serves on the Senate Appropriations Committee, including the Agriculture Appropriations Subcommittee, and the Senate Commerce Committee. Congressman Pomeroy is a member of the Ways and Means and Agriculture Committees.
 
 