CHIEF EXECUTIVES OF TWO LEADING INTERNET COMPANIES TO HEADLINE SEN. DORGAN/CHAMBER OF COMMERCE EVENT IN FARGO ON OCT. 11, 12
  The CEOs of eBay and Travelocity, two of the leading companies on the Internet, will speak at Sen. Byron Dorgan's (D-ND) sixth annual Upper Great Plains Technology Conference and Trade Show. The event, which Dorgan sponsors with the Chamber of Commerce of Fargo Moorhead, will be held on Monday and Tuesday, October 11 and 12, at the FARGODOME.  
   Dorgan announced Friday that Meg Whitman, president and chief executive of eBay, and Michelle Peluso, CEO of Travelocity, will join Steve Largent, president of the Cellular Telecommunications & Internet Association (CTIA), as keynote speakers of the two-day event. Whitman was named one of the 25 most powerful people in business in 2004 by Fortune magazine. Peluso founded and ran the last-minute online travel site, Site 59, before being named CEO of Travelocity in 2003. Largent is a former Congressman and National Football League Hall of Fame receiver. He now represents the nation's top wireless companies as head of CTIA. 
   The event will include two dozen free workshops and more than 200 exhibits at the region's largest consumer electronics and technology trade show. Topics to be covered at this year's event include digital photography, WiFi, web marketing, wireless advances, Internet security, broadband services, telemedicine, and the home of the future. 
   "This conference will feature an all-star lineup of speakers, exhibitors and workshops," Dorgan said. "Meg Whitman, Michelle Peluso and Steve Largent are some of the biggest names and best innovators in business and technology nationwide. 
   "We also have representatives from the nation's largest high-tech companies leading workshops and showcasing their newest technologies on the trade show floor. I hope all who have an interest in business and consumer technology issues make plans to attend." 
   North Dakotans and others can register for the event by phone at 701-237-5678 or online at www.uppergreatplainstechnology.com. There is no cost to attend the keynote speeches, trade show or workshops, though pre-registration is required. To participate in the two lunches, breakfast and two food socials, the cost is $75. The event is open to the public.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 