SENATE COMMITTEE APPROVES SEN. DORGAN'S AGRICULTURE DISASTER PACKAGE
  The Senate Appropriations Committee approved an agriculture disaster package offered by Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) Tuesday afternoon, clearing a major hurdle in the effort to provide assistance for farmers and ranchers in North Dakota and across the country whose crops and livestock operations were ravaged by severe weather last year. 
   The legislation would provide assistance for crop and quality loss, as well as help ranchers in disaster counties with livestock feed costs. The legislation also provides payments to offset the high cost of fuel and fertilizer.
   Dorgan pressed lawmakers on the committee to vote for his amendment, saying it was important to help farmers and ranchers across the country whose livelihoods have been threatened by soggy farm fields, skyrocketing energy prices and low commodity prices. The Committee voted unanimously for the Dorgan amendment.
   Dorgan attached the agriculture disaster package as an amendment to the emergency supplemental bill that will fund the Iraq war and hurricane relief. Dorgan and Senator Kent Conrad (D-ND) also have introduced the measure as a stand-alone bill. That bill was co-sponsored by a bipartisan group of 23 other senators.
   "This is a very positive step for our farmers and ranchers who are coping with losses from weather-related disasters," Dorgan said. "In North Dakota last year torrential rains prevented the planting of more than 1 million acres, and nearly a million more acres were flooded out. The families that run those farms have been put in a tough spot through no fault of their own, and today's vote is the first step to giving them the help they need to stay on the farm."
   Dorgan said the bill will go next to the Senate floor for approval, and then to a conference committee with the U.S. House.
   Last December, Dorgan offered a farm disaster amendment to a defense spending bill. It was approved by the Senate conferees but rejected by Republican conferees from the U.S. House of Representatives.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 