SEN. DORGAN PRESENTS MILITARY HEROES WITH LONG-OVERDUE MEDALS DURING COURTHOUSE CEREMONIES
  Three military veterans from the Spirit Lake Sioux Tribe at Fort Totten, were presented long-overdue military medals by U.S. Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND) Saturday.  
   The presentation was made during ceremonies formally inaugurating the Spirit Lake Tribal Courthouse. Dorgan, a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, helped secure over half a million dollars to help pay for the new county facility.
   It was the former soldiers, however, who Dorgan focused his remarks on Saturday. He described the Ft. Totten veterans - Ambrose Thompson, Floyd Joshua, and Andrew Shaw - as "genuine American heroes."
   He said they "defended and preserved freedom" and that they did so "heroically and at great personal sacrifice."
   Though each man earned the medals more than fifty years ago, bureaucratic mix-ups, oversights and lost records prevented the medals from ever being formally awarded to them. "These medals are long over-due," Dorgan said, "but it is never too late say 'thank you' to a hero, and never too far to travel - even across time itself - to honor these heroic soldiers for what they did." 
   The three veterans who received the medals are:
   * Ambrose Thompson, World War II and Korean War veteran; winner of the Silver Star, the nation's third highest military valor medal. The Silver Star is only awarded for exceptional gallantry in the face of the enemy. Thompson won and received numerous medals for his World War II service, but during his Korean War service, he earned the medal he never formally received. On July 14, 1951, he led the charge up a hill in Chupa-ri, Korea, a hill two other platoons had tried, but failed, to take. While Ambrose earned the Silver Star in that action, the formal award of the medal got lost in decades of bureaucratic snafus.
   * Floyd Joshua; Korean War veteran; presented with the Purple Heart medal. Floyd was hit in the side just behind the ribs with a mortar fragment and still bears the scar. Dorgan also presented Joshua with other medals he earned during his Korean War service: the Army of Occupation Medal with Germany clasp; National Defense Service Medal; Korean Service Medal with 1 bronze service star; Combat Infantryman Badge 1st Award and the United National Service Medal.
   * Andrew Shaw, Korean War veteran; presented with the Prisoner of War (POW) medal, which honors those who gave special service to their country, recognizing the great pain and suffering endured under the most hostile and difficult of circumstances by those who receive it. Dorgan also presented other long lost medals Shaw earned: the Army of Occupation Medal with Japan clasp; National Defense Service Medal, Korean Service Medal and United Nations Service Medal.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 