SEN. DORGAN MEETS WITH DEVILS LAKE OFFICIALS ON WATER ISSUES, SULLYS HILL
  U.S. Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND) met with Devils Lake officials Saturday to discuss the effort to secure a safe, reliable supply of water for the city and the surrounding area. He also also toured Sullys Hill National Wildlife Refuge, which he secured funding to keep open year-round earlier this year. 
   Dorgan, Chairman of the Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee, has secured $1.7 million in federal funding to replace the Devils Lake water line, and included an additional $6 million in a bill currently pending in the Senate. Six miles of the existing water line has been covered by the rising waters of the lake, leaving the city in danger of losing its water supply.
   He also updated city officials on the Senate's passage Thursday of the Water Resources Development Act, which authorized a total of $15 million in federal funding for relocating the city's water line.
   "We cannot afford to risk losing the water supply in Devils Lake," Dorgan said. "The Funding I included will make sure this community has a safe, reliable supply of drinking water," Dorgan said. 
   Dorgan also visited Sullys Hill National Wildlife Refuge near Devils Lake. The refuge was in danger of being closed for much of the year before Dorgan stepped in and pushed the Fish and Wildlife Service to fill its vacant ranger position, pledging in return to work through his seat on the Appropriations Committee to increase its budget. The agency had planned to keep the ranger position vacant because it had instituted a hiring freeze due to a shortage of funds. In 2002, Dorgan secured $1 million to help build the Sully Hills Visitor Center.
   "Sullys Hill is one of the real treasures of North Dakota's outdoors," Dorgan said. "The Fish and Wildlife Service averted a tragic mistake when they agreed to hire a new ranger and keep the refuge open year-round. This is an important resource for Devils Lake's tourism industry and for recreation for residents of the community."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 