SEN. DORGAN SAYS COMMERCE COMMITTEE VOTE SENDS WARNING TO FCC ON MEDIA OWNERSHIP RULES
  The U.S. Senate Commerce Committee approved legislation Tuesday by U.S. Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND) and Trent Lott (R-MS) which would put the brakes on what Dorgan describes as the Federal Communications Commission's (FCC) "obsession" to allow more concentration of media ownership.  
   Dorgan called what the FCC is trying to do a "wrong headed" approach. "We already have galloping concentration that hurts our country." 
   The committee vote "sends a strong message" to FCC Chairman Kevin Martin, Dorgan said. "That message is that he needs to follow a fair process, examine the impact of his proposal on localism and diversity of ownership and let the public be heard." 
   Martin is rushing a vote on new rules he proposed for media ownership. Martin's plan would relax newspaper-broadcast cross ownership rules and allow even more concentration of ownership. Martin has scheduled a December 18 vote on his proposal, less than a month after he made public his proposed new rules. While he provided a 120 day comment period, that period began well before Martin released his specific proposal. 
   The Dorgan-Lott bill would stop the process in its tracks. 
   Specifically, the bill would require 90 days for the public to comment on any proposed media ownership rules put forward by the FCC. It would also require the FCC to complete a separate proceeding to evaluate how localism is affected by media consolidation prior to other action. This requirement includes a study of the impact of cross-ownership on localism at the market level. The FCC must allow 90 days of comment on this study, and the comment period must be completed prior to the FCC issuing its ownership rule changes and putting them out for comment. Finally, the bill requires establishment of an independent panel on female and minority ownership and for the FCC to provide the panel with accurate data on female and minority ownership. This panel must issue recommendations and the FCC must act on them prior to voting on any proposed ownership rules. 
   "Media ownership rules are important in a democracy," Dorgan said. "We won't allow the FCC to rush to judgment, and we won't allow the public to be shut out of the process." 
   Dorgan said he is hopeful that the FCC will heed the message being sent by Congress and he will continue to work to prevent the FCC from voting on December 18. In addition to Senators Dorgan and Lott, the bipartisan bill approved by the Commerce Committee is co-sponsored by Senators Barack Obama (D-IL), Olympia Snowe (R-ME), John Kerry (D-MA), Susan Collins (R-ME), Bill Nelson (D-FL), Larry Craig (R-ID), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Barbara Boxer (D-CA), Hilary Clinton (D-NY), Joe Biden (D-DE), Jon Tester (D-MT), Dick Durbin (D-IL), Bernie Sanders (I-VT), Chris Dodd (D-CT), and Russ Feingold (D-WI).
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 