SEN. DORGAN NOMINATES NORTH DAKOTA STUDENTS TO ATTEND U.S. MILITARY ACADEMIES
  U.S. Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND) announced Tuesday he has given "principal nominations" to four North Dakota students for appointment to U.S. military service academies in 2008. The four students receiving Dorgan's principal nominations, upon successful completion of a final physical and medical examination, will receive four-year, tuition-free appointments to their selected military academies - the U.S. Military Academy in West Point, NY, the U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD, or the U.S. Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO.
   "Service in the United States' military service academies is one of the most challenging but fulfilling ways to serve our country," Dorgan said. "I'm proud of the students that are receiving nominations from me this year. This is clearly a group that has succeeded as a result of years of hard work and dedication. They will be a credit to North Dakota, their families and the U.S. military." 
   Dorgan also nominated 14 other North Dakota students to enter a competitive national pool for any additional slots that are available at the military academies.
   The nominations are the culmination of a rigorous selection process that includes a competitive review of the students' achievements and physical conditioning, as well as personal interviews with military officials and a selection panel. The appointment requires a commitment of five years on active duty following graduation.
   Dorgan's four principal nominees are:
   * Angela Beaton, a senior at Red River High School in Grand Forks, has been nominated to the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, New York. Angela is the daughter of Bill and Dyana Beaton of Grand Forks, North Dakota. 
   * David Samson of Park River, North Dakota, has been nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, Maryland. David, who currently attends the Naval preparatory school in New Jersey, is the son of Paul and Colleen Samson of Park River, North Dakota. 
   * Benjamin Oehlke, a senior at Divide County High School in Crosby, has been nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, Maryland. Benjamin is the son of Shawn and Esther Oehlke of Crosby, North Dakota.
   * Alex Malm, a senior at St. Mary's Central High School in Bismarck, has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, Colorado. Alex is the son of Mark and Sharon Malm of Bismarck, North Dakota.
   Dorgan's other 14 nominees will compete in a national selection process, which will be finished in the spring of 2008. These nominations are listed below.
   To the Military Academy at West Point, New York: Matthew Riopelle, son of Joseph and Dorothy Riopelle of Fargo; Stuart Nygard, son of Todd and Laura Nygard of Williston; Joshua Roberts, son of the late James and Betty Roberts of Grand Forks; Justin Schumacher, son of Marlene and Peggy Schumacher of West Fargo; Adam Solar, son of Robert and Penny Solar of Minot; and Erik Volk, son of Rick and Margaret Volk of Hazen.
   To the Naval Academy in Annapolis, Maryland: Christopher Crowe II, son of Christopher and Pauline Crowe of Fargo; Kayla Roemmich, the daughter of Ross and Monica Roemmich of Bottineau; Devany Schulz, daughter of Gregory and Sheri Schulz of Davenport; and Isaac Wilson, son of Connie and Darren Wilson of Minot.
   To the Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, Colorado: Jessica Baer, daughter of Bruce and Mary Baer of Belfield; Edward Keller, son of Ed and Kimberlee Keller of Minot; Derek Schumacher, son of Donald and Marlys Schumacher of Minot and Coraley Wolff, daughter of Corey and Johnetta Wolff of Watford City.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 