SEN. DORGAN CALLS FOR BUYOUT OF DOWNSTREAM MISSOURI RIVER NAVIGATION INTERESTS
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) wants the Army Corps of Engineers to take the money it spends to support the "dying barge industry" downstream on the Missouri River and buy it out, clearing the way for the Corps to reduce upstream dam releases and prevent the kind of low-water problems that have plagued the Upper Missouri for years.  
   "Take all the money the Corps spends to support navigation, add the funds the Corps has to spend to help communities cope with the low lake levels, and buy out the downstream navigational interests," Dorgan wrote in a letter to Corps Commander and Chief of Engineers Lt. Gen. Carl A. Strock. "I believe this common-sense alternative will have much more benefit than what the Corps is currently proposing and will enhance all other authorized purposes, including those in downstream states." 
   Dorgan's proposal comes on the heels of a meeting in Bismarck where the Corps discussed its plan to create an average of 50 acres of sandbar habitat per mile between Garrison Dam and the Heart River by 2015 to help the recovery of two bird species protected under the Endangered Species Act. About 150 people attended the meeting, many expressing concerns with the Corps plan. 
   "Once again, the Corps has showed an inability to use common-sense when it comes to managing the Missouri River," Dorgan said. "The Corps is planning to spend millions of dollars to create artificial sandbars so that when it releases water for downstream navigation in the spring, the bird habitat doesn't wash away. This is beyond ridiculous, it's just plain stupid!" 
   Dorgan noted that low water caused in part by the Corps' mismanagement of the river has required the extension and relocation of boat ramps, emergency modifications to community water systems, and other drought mitigation measures. The Corps' new plan fails to address the fundamental problem of short-changing upstream water users, Dorgan said. 
   "This latest plan just goes to show how out of step with reality the Corps of Engineers really is," Dorgan added. "Each year downstream navigation is cut short and upstream lakes are run dry. At some point both of these constituencies are going to be left with nothing. Before that happens, we need to do something." 
   To view Dorgan's letter to the Army Corps of Engineers click: http://dorgan.senate.gov/newsroom/extras/012705strock.pdf
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Sanjay Talwani, 202/224-2551.
 
 