SEN. DORGAN SAYS ELECTED OFFICIALS, LAW ENFORCEMENT MUST WORK TOGETHER TO ADDRESS METH 'SCOURGE'
  The growing production and use of methamphetamine in American Indian communities is a crisis that must be addressed by an enhanced partnership between federal and tribal governments and law enforcement officials, Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) said Friday at a roundtable discussion he organized here.  
   Dorgan, chairman of the Senate Indian Affairs Committee, invited officials from the federal Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) to meet with area tribal leaders at United Tribes Technical College. Dorgan brought the BIA's top law enforcement official, Deputy Director of Justice Services Chris Chaney, to the meeting to help brainstorm ways policymakers can give law enforcement the tools they need to prevent the spread of the dangerous drug. 
   "The scourge of meth has spread across much of rural America, including our American Indian communities, and the stories of families and communities torn apart are just heartbreaking," Dorgan said. "I'm determined to find a way to help prevent people from falling into this meth trap and help break the addiction for those who have. I'll work to make sure this discussion continues so we stay on top of this issue." 
   Dorgan has introduced legislation to help fight meth production and use on American Indian reservations. The bill would make tribal governments and U.S. territories eligible for grant programs and federal funding that provide resources for law enforcement and treatment programs. 
   Dorgan called a hearing on meth on reservations last spring, and invited Karrie Azure, who coordinates the United Tribes Multi-Tribal Indian Drug and Alcohol Initiative at United Tribes Technical College. Azure testified that approximately 90 percent of individuals entering treatment programs at Turtle Mountain Reservation in North Dakota are there because of methamphetamine, and said more resources are needed to fight the effects of a drug that is ravaging tribal communities.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 