NORTH DAKOTA STATE UNIVERSITY VICE PRESIDENT BOUDJOUK TESTIFIES BEFORE SEN. DORGAN SUBCOMMITTEE ON HIGH-TECH RESEARCH IN NORTH DAKOTA
  A senior North Dakota State University (NDSU) official told a U.S. Senate subcommittee today that the Red River Valley Research Corridor is a model for how research institutions can take part in high-tech research that spurs significant economic development. 
   Dr. Phil Boudjouk, NDSU Vice President of Research, highlighted the school's work in the field of nanotechnology before the Senate Subcommittee on Trade, Tourism and Economic Development, on which U.S. Senator Byron Dorgan serves as Ranking Member. NDSU's work through the Research Corridor to attract federal research funding and private-sector partners has created a burgeoning high-tech sector that attracts brainpower and high-paying jobs, Boudjouk testified.
   Dorgan, who invited Boudjouk to testify, said his testimony stems from recognition that North Dakota has become a leader in the field of nanotechnology.
   "I'm proud to have Phil represent North Dakota before this Subcommittee on the great strides we've made in developing a Red River Valley Research Corridor and groundbreaking research at NDSU," Dorgan said. "His testimony is an excellent sign of North Dakota's growing reputation as a center of quality, high-tech research. This is really exciting work that will lead us to a new age of technology, and it's being done not in Boston or California but at our research institutions in North Dakota."
   "In North Dakota, we have made important progress in converting nanotechnology into economic development," Boudjouk said. "For us, in Fargo, North Dakota, an area not previously known for high technology-based industries, we now have Microsoft Great Plains, John Deere, Ingersoll Rand and, this month, Alien Technology, the world leader in Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) technology will open its doors in the North Dakota State University Research and Technology Park. They are in Fargo because Senator Dorgan challenged us to form a three part relationship: federal, state, and private. And North Dakota has."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 