SENATE APPROVES AGRICULTURE DISASTER PACKAGE SEN. DORGAN ADDED TO EMERGENCY SPENDING BILL
  Disaster relief for family farmers and ranchers struggling with weather-related disasters and skyrocketing energy costs came one step closer to becoming law Thursday as the Senate approved an emergency appropriations bill including $4 billion in agriculture disaster relief, Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) announced. 
   Dorgan, who secured a unanimous vote from his Senate Appropriations Committee colleagues to include the disaster relief in the emergency bill, said the bill would bring an estimated $175 million to help producers in North Dakota, where weather-related disasters in 2005 prevented 1 million acres from being planted and washed out another nearly 1 million acres of crops. The original disaster bill was introduced by Senator Kent Conrad (D-ND), Senator Dorgan, and other farm-state senators.
   "Today's action is a positive step in bringing some relief to farmers and ranchers in North Dakota and across the country," Dorgan said. "They faced devastating weather conditions last year that put them in a tight spot through no fault of their own, and we need to act to bring them some relief and help families stay on the farm."
   Dorgan said the bill will go next to a House-Senate conference committee that will work out the differences between the House and Senate versions. Dorgan will sit on that conference committee and said he'll push hard to ensure the agriculture disaster package is included. He said he'll also push the Administration to back down from the President's threat to veto the emergency bill if it contains disaster relief for farmers and ranchers.
   "We're not going to let the President's veto threat stop us from working to obtain the emergency assistance so many family farmers and ranchers so urgently need," Dorgan said. "The Senate has decided it is a priority to help family farmers who have lost their crops to weather-related disasters. If the President decides he is going to confront us on that, so be it, but it's a big disappointment. The President came to Fargo, North Dakota, and said, 'When you need me I'll be there.' Well, the fact is we need him but he's not there. I hope one of these days he will understand that it's important to stand up for family businesses and family farmers, as well."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 