OMB ROLLS BACK HIGHER LIMITS ON GOVERNMENT CREDIT CARDS, RESPONDS TO EFFORT BY SENS. DORGAN, WYDEN TO PREVENT ABUSE DURING HURRICANE CLEAN-UP
  Sens. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) and Ron Wyden (D-OR) applauded the White House Office of Management and Budget (OMB) today for heeding their calls to roll back new, higher limits on government credit cards that were raised in the wake of Hurricane Katrina, and could be used as "a tool for widespread fraud," the Senators said.  
   Dorgan and Wyden held a press conference on the issue Friday, September 30, announcing they had introduced legislation that would repeal language included in the emergency Hurricane Katrina spending bill that increased the limit to $250,000 for any purchase related to the hurricane. The Senators said the higher limit paved the way for potential abuse of certain government credit cards, which have been grossly mismanaged in the past. 
   On Monday, October 3, OMB responded to the Senators' concerns and issued a press release stating it had returned the limits to the pre-Hurricane Katrina levels of $2,500 on a single shopping trip for non-emergency purchases and $15,000 for emergency purchases domestically, "except in 'exceptional circumstances' approved by OMB." The agency also said it supports the Dorgan-Wyden legislation to prevent fraud and abuse. 
   Dorgan and Wyden have pointed to numerous troubling examples of federal government employees abusing the credit cards prior to Hurricane Katrina. Several Government Accounting Office (GAO) reports have found stunning examples of their misuse, such as the Navy personnel who, in 2002, used their government credit cards to hire prostitutes, gamble, and attend professional sporting events. One worker ran up $35,000 in personal expenses over two years, including breast enlargement surgery for his girlfriend. More than 1,000 federal employees retained an active credit card after they left their jobs. The Government Accountability Office has found in the past that hundreds of millions of dollars have been squandered through improper use of government credit cards. 
   "This is a victory for American taxpayers' and against the pervasive problem of waste, fraud and abuse within the federal government," Dorgan said. "The White House's approach to hurricane recovery has been to spend lavishly and worry about the tab later. So I'm pleased OMB has realized the new limits would only pave the way for irresponsible spending and the potential for further abuse. But I think Congress still needs to act to make sure we go forward with rebuilding the Gulf Coast in a way that will help hurricane victims while keeping an eye on the taxpayers' dollars." 
   "The government needs to move swiftly to buy emergency supplies for hurricane victims, but at the same time we need to be responsible in spending taxpayer dollars," said Wyden. "OMB's return to the original limit for emergencies is exactly the kind of common-sense step we've called for to fight waste and fraud with government credit cards." 
   The Senators said they still intend to push forward with their bill so as to affirm the OMB's rules in law.
 
 