SEN. DORGAN CALLS MEETING 'CONSTRUCTIVE,' PLEDGES TO FIGHT PLAN TO REQUIRE PASSPORTS AT THE BORDER
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) said Tuesday he thinks today's hearing on passport issues with two Administration officials was "constructive," and urged the officials to use the views they heard from North Dakota citizens to form a policy for the U.S.-Canada border that ensures homeland security without seriously disrupting travel and economic activity in border areas.  
   Dorgan organized the hearing to give North Dakotans an opportunity to express their views on proposed passport regulations, which would require anyone crossing the U.S.-Canada border - including North Dakotans traveling to work, school or a weekend vacation - to carry a passport. This regulation, while doing little to enhance border security, would place an undue financial burden on many families, he said. 
   Business, health care and economic development leaders from Grand Forks and other communities offered comments during the hearing on how their lives and jobs would be affected by the proposed rules. Dorgan said he thinks the two Administration officials he brought to the hearing - Alcy Frelick, Senior Advisor for Western Hemisphere Travel at the State Department, and Robert Mocney, Deputy Director of the US VISIT program at the Department of Homeland Security - now have a better understanding of how such a regulation would harm small, rural border communities. 
   "I have always been an advocate of tightened border security - even before September 11," Dorgan said. "But it would make little sense to require a family of five to spend hundreds of dollars just to get across the border for the day. The security benefit from such a policy would be negligible, while the disruption to the economies in border states like North Dakota could be great. I think we had a constructive meeting today, and I will continue to work in Congress and with the Administration to find a more sensible solution to this issue."
 
 