SEN. DORGAN AMENDMENT STRENGTHENS DRUG COURT SYSTEM
  Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND) won approval Thursday for an amendment that substantially increases funding for the nation's drug courts, which he said get better results and cost less money than the traditional court system when it comes to fighting illegal drug use.  
   Dorgan's amendment increases funding for the drug court system from the $25 million originally included in the bill to $40 million. President Bush's Fiscal Year 2008 Budget recommended no funding for the courts. 
   North Dakota has seven drug courts, for adults and juveniles, in Bismarck, Fargo, Grand Forks, Minot and one tribal drug court, for the Turtle Mountain Band of Chippewa. 
   "A top priority of any program that aims to combat drug abuse in this country has to be helping those now addicted to get free of that addiction," Dorgan said. "The drug courts have a remarkable track record of doing that, providing treatment and rehabilitation where once there was only incarceration." 
   Dorgan noted a recent Government Accountability Office (GAO) study which found that offenders who go through the drug court system, rather than the traditional court system, have lower re-arrest and conviction rates. 
   Drug courts are also a smart investment, Dorgan said. "They not only help drug users get off drugs, they save taxpayers' money. Incarcerating a drug offender costs between $20,000 to $50,000 per year. It costs just $2,500 to $4,000 for a comprehensive drug court program. Better results at less cost. That's a pretty good combination." 
   North Dakota's Supreme Court Chief Justice Gerald W. VandeWalle was among those who welcomed news of the Senate's action. "I am pleased to learn that Senator Dorgan was successful in his efforts to increase the appropriation for Drug Courts to $40 million in the Senate," he said. "Drug Courts have been successful in North Dakota and this will assist us in the continuation and expansion of this worthwhile program." 
   Under the drug court program, non-violent offenders, who plead guilty and who want to tackle their addiction problems undergo a rigorous monitoring and treatment program. It includes participation in intensive treatment programs, random drug tests, required attendance at AA (Alcoholics Anonymous) or NA (Narcotics Anonymous) meetings, regular meetings with a probation officer, and a strict at-home curfew. 
   Dorgan's amendment was accepted by the Senate as part of the Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations bill now being considered on the Senate floor.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 