SEN. DORGAN RESOLUTION WOULD BLOCK IMPORTS OF CANADIAN CATTLE OVER 30 MONTHS OLD
  U.S. Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND) introduced a formal "Resolution of Disapproval" Wednesday to block a new Bush Administration proposal to allow resumption of imports of Canadian beef and cattle over 30 months of age. Joining Dorgan as original co-sponsors of the resolution are Senators Mike Enzi (R-WY), Kent Conrad (D-ND), Tim Johnson, (D-SD), John Thune (R-SD), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), John Tester (D-MT), and John Barrasso (R-WY). Dorgan's resolution could get expedited consideration, under procedures for the little used Resolution of Disapproval process. Twenty days or more after the rule is issued the Resolution of Disapproval can be put directly on the Senate calendar if 30 Senators sign a discharge petition.  
 If the resolution is enacted, it would prevent the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) from implementing its plan to ease age restrictions on imported Canadian cattle and beef. "This rule needlessly puts U.S. consumers at risk," Dorgan said. "The Bush Administration based its decision to allow these imports to resume on overly optimistic assumptions regarding the scope of Canada's Mad Cow problem and the effectiveness of Canada's efforts to control, prevent and eradicate it. The American people deserve to know, without question, that the food they put on the dinner table is safe. The Administration's decision will also erode the confidence of our trading partners in the safety of our beef supply, which could have a devastating impact on our ranchers, farmers and processors. "If the Administration is unwilling to protect the U.S. cattle industry and American consumers, Congress must act to do so," Dorgan said. Such protection is "vital," Dorgan added, noting that annual U.S. beef exports dropped in 2004 by 81% following discovery of a cow, originally from Canada and infected with Mad Cow Disease, in a Washington state herd in 2003. The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has determined that Canadian cattle are 26 times more likely to be infected with Mad Cow Disease than U.S. cattle. The original ban, on all Canadian beef and cattle, was put into effect to protect U.S. cattle herds, after a number of Canadian cattle were found to be infected with Bovine Spongiform Encephalophy (BSE), also known as Mad Cow Disease. Eventually, that ban was rolled back to apply only to live Canadian cattle and beef older than 30 months of age, which is the age determined by the World Organization for Animal Health as unlikely to pose a risk. On September 19, The USDA rolled that back even further, allowing the importation of Canadian cattle more than 30 months old, as long as they were not born before March 1, 1999. It will also allow importation of Canadian beef of any age. The proposed changes would take effect November 19, 2007.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 