SEN. DORGAN HONORS ENGLISH TEACHER TOLLEFSON IN CEREMONY AT REGENT CAF?
  When U.S. Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND) was growing up in Regent, English teacher DeLores Tollefson presented him with challenges that made a difference in his life. On Sunday, Dorgan presented something to her - a framed statement he entered into the Congressional Record honoring her teaching career and her 90th birthday. 
   Dorgan presented the statement to Tollefson in a ceremony at the Regent Café. The text of the statement is below.
   TEXT OF STATEMENT
  BY SENATOR BYRON DORGAN
   "Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, most of us look back on our high school years as a wonderful time of learning, growing and maturing. 
   "And also, most of us remember fondly one special teacher that gave us a nudge or an encouraging pat on the back or maybe even some discipline at the right moment. 
   "For me, that teacher was DeLores Tollefson. She was a big presence in a small school. She was the English teacher who virtually did it all in my small school of 40 students in all four high school grades. She put on all the class plays; she helped run the school newspaper and spearheaded the school annual; and she taught speech and English, and much more. 
   "But most important to me was that she had the patience to see potential in her students. At just the right time she would offer either encouragement or disapproval and say, 'You can do that, you've got a lot of talent,' or 'You're better than that. Come on-get busy and work up to your potential,' or 'Great job!' 
   "Most of us who were fortunate enough to have a teacher that saw potential and pushed us to reach it seldom took the time to say thank you. 
   "This year marks the 90th birthday of DeLores Tollefson and I want to pay tribute to a wonderful teacher who affected my life in a very positive way. It is time to say a very special 'Thank you.'
   "Happy Birthday, DeLores Tollefson! And thank you for dedicating your life to teaching young people. It made a big difference in the life of this former student."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 