ETHANOL PROVISIONS IN ENERGY BILL ARE 'GIANT STEP IN THE RIGHT DIRECTION', COULD MEAN NEW JOBS IN NORTH DAKOTA, SEN. DORGAN SAYS
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) told leaders from North Dakota's ethanol, biodiesel and wind industries today that the recently passed energy bill includes a number of incentives for them to grow their businesses - and create new energy-related jobs in the state.  
   "Before long, we'll all be pulling up to the pump and saying, "Fill me up with corn," Dorgan said at a press conference held at his Fargo office. Joining him were North Dakota Agriculture Commissioner Roger Johnson and representatives of three of the state's renewable energy sector who have much to gain from the energy bill: Joci Iszler of the North Dakota Corn Growers; Terry Goerger of the North Dakota Soybean Growers; and Matt Gadow of DMI Industries. Dorgan was a member of the House-Senate Conference Committee that negotiated the final version of the energy bill Congress passed last week. The bill includes his proposal for a national "Renewable Fuels Standard," which requires refiners to produce and use at least 7.5 billion gallons of ethanol in their gasoline blends annually by 2012. U.S. consumers currently use about 3.6 billion gallons of ethanol per year. Dorgan said that requirement will add substantial value to North Dakota's grains and encourage new development - and well-paying jobs - in North Dakota's ethanol and biodiesel industries. 
   North Dakota currently has two ethanol plants; and four additional ethanol plants and one biodiesel fuel plant are in the planning phase. Each facility would employ about 40 workers. And Dorgan said that kind of economic growth is just a start. 
   "The energy bill we passed will lead to a significant number of new jobs in North Dakota's renewable fuels industry because the incentives to expand are very strong and sure to attract new investment and create new jobs in our state," he said. "With our diverse set of energy resources, our state also has a role to play in the growth of the renewable fuels industry nationally." 
   In addition, the bill includes Dorgan's $3.75 billion hydrogen program and significant boosts for North Dakota's wind industry by extending for two years a production tax credit for renewable energy that has played a key role in tapping North Dakota's vast wind resources. The credit was set to expire at the end of this year.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 