SEN. DORGAN ANNOUNCES HANKINSON TO RECEIVE $1 MILLION FEDERAL GRANT
  U.S. Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND) announced Wednesday he has been informed by the federal Economic Development Administration (EDA) that the city of Hankinson, North Dakota is on track to receive a $1 million grant for road and water line construction in the Hankinson Regional Agricultural Industrial Park. The improvements are necessary to get the new ethanol plant finished. When completed, the plant will be North Dakota's largest.  
 Dorgan worked with community officials to help secure the grant. Dorgan said his office was contacted earlier this week by the EDA and informed that the process for awarding the grant is now in the final stages. "This is terrific news for Hankinson, and for North Dakota," Dorgan said. The federal funds will help finance construction of roadways and water lines in the industrial park, work essential to getting the new ethanol plant operational. The EDA estimates these improvements could lead to as much as $160 million dollars in additional private-sector investment. "The alternative energy industry is a vital part of the effort to strengthen North Dakota's economy, and is central to greater energy security for our nation as we work to depend less on foreign sources of energy. This funding will be a great help to both efforts." Dorgan chairs the Senate Energy & Natural Resources Sub-Committee and the Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development. Last month, Dorgan introduced a bill to make renewable fuels more widely available to Americans through expansion of the infrastructure that delivers it to consumers, and boost the number of vehicles on the road that can use alternative fuels. The bill, which was introduced with Senator Richard Lugar (R-IN), will require automakers to produce more "flex fuel" vehicles that can run on biofuels and will establish targets for the installation of more E-85 or blender pumps.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 