SEN. DORGAN URGES FCC TO ENSURE BROADCASTERS SERVE LOCAL COMMUNITIES BEFORE CHANGING MEDIA OWNERSHIP RULES
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) called on Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Chairman Kevin Martin Monday to complete a key inquiry into the way local broadcasters serve their communities before moving ahead with new media ownership rules. Dorgan said the local stations must be able to serve the local needs of their communities.  
   Dorgan authored a letter, signed by eight other Senators, that was sent to FCC Chairman Martin asking him to complete hearings on how broadcasters serve their local communities and issue recommendations and a report before changes on media ownership rules move forward. Media ownership rules govern how many media outlets a single owner can control. As media companies get larger and larger, increased concentration is a serious problem that Senator Dorgan is fighting to combat. 
   "Democracy depends on the open and free flow of information," said Dorgan. "The rules governing media ownership have a significant impact on the diversity of voices and ownership in our communities. When local stations are controlled by big corporations outside their communities, it weakens their ability to provide wide coverage of local issues." 
   The FCC began the localism proceeding in 2003 to study whether steps are needed to make certain that broadcasters are serving their local communities. The proceeding called for holding six hearings and issuing recommendations and a report. The FCC has only held four out of six hearings, and no recommendations or report has been issued. The letter calls for these proceedings to be completed, and for the FCC to make public the data from a study on localism in radio that has been completed as part of the proceeding but not released. 
   Senators Barbara Boxer (D-CA), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), John Kerry (D-MA), Frank Lautenberg (D-NJ), Trent Lott (R-MS), Bill Nelson (D-FL), Mark Pryor (D-AR) and Olympia Snowe (R-ME) also signed the letter.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 