SEN. DORGAN SEEKS TO FOCUS EFFORT TO BRING OSAMA BIN LADEN TO JUSTICE
  On the 2001st day after the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks on the United States, Sens. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) and Kent Conrad (D-ND) are asking the Senate to re-focus U.S. military efforts on finding Osama bin Laden and bringing him to justice.  
   Dorgan and Conrad are offering an amendment, now being considered by the Senate, which would require the Director of National Intelligence and the Secretary of Defense to submit a classified report to Congress within 180 days which answers three questions: 
   * Where does the U.S. believe al-Qaeda leadership is hiding? 
   * Are the leadership in those countries cooperating with effort to find them and bring them to justice? 
   * What additional resources are needed to capture bin Laden, and other members of al-Qaeda's top leadership? 
   Re-focusing on bringing bin Laden and other top al-Qaeda leaders to justice is "long overdue," Dorgan said, as the U.S. continues to pour military effort and money into the war in Iraq. 
   Dorgan noted as far back as 2003, President Bush said, "I don't know where bin Laden is. I have no idea and really don't care. It's not that important. It's not our priority." 
   Yet, in January of this year, John Negroponte, Director of National Intelligence, told Congress al-Qaeda "is the terrorist organization that poses the greatest threat to U.S. interests, including to the homeland." He said al-Qaeda leaders "continue to plot attacks against our homeland and other targets with the objective of inflicting mass casualties. And they continue to maintain active connections and relationships that radiate outward from their leaders' secure hideout in Pakistan to affiliates throughout the Middle East, northern Africa and Europe." 
   "It seems clear finding bin Laden and other top al-Qaeda leaders and bringing them to justice ought to be a priority," Dorgan said. "This legislation would make it a priority by requiring a detailed and classified report to Congress on the effort to find him." 
   "Osama bin Laden, the head of al-Qaeda, planned, financed and organized a terrorist operation that killed thousands of Americans. It has now been 2001 days since those attacks, and this man is still on the loose. This man must be brought to justice," Senator Conrad said.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 