SEN. DORGAN ANNOUNCES SURFACE TRANSPORTATION BOARD CHAIRMAN TO VISIT NORTH DAKOTA
  U.S. Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND) announced Wednesday that Surface Transportation Board (STB) Chairman Charles "Chip" Nottingham has agreed to visit North Dakota next week to meet with business, family farmers and other "captive shippers" about the harmful economic effect of the lack of competitive rail service in the state. Chairman Nottingham will visit Bismarck, Cleveland, Enderlin, Casselton and Fargo March 10 to 12. 
   With only four class I railroads providing over 90 percent of the freight rail service in this country, there is a distinct lack of competition, which puts North Dakota shippers at the mercy of the railroads. Nottingham's visit is a response to Senator Dorgan's presentation at the North Dakota Grain Dealer's Convention in January where Dorgan laid out the case that the STB had a responsibility to demand fair rail rates for captive shippers.
   "North Dakota is still a predominantly agricultural state, and to get their product to market, our producers rely on the rail system," Dorgan said. "The fact is our farmers are charged excessively high rail rates because they are captive shippers. That has got to change."
   "Our nation needs a stable and secure rail system but it can't be built on the backs of farmers. I appreciate Chairman Nottingham coming to North Dakota to hear directly from the producers about how they are being held at the mercy of the railroad," Dorgan concluded.
   Dorgan is currently pushing legislation to protect rail customers from being forced to pay excessive rates, and to require the Surface Transportation Board to revamp their system for challenging shipping fees. The STB would have to change their system so that customers have an accessible, workable and affordable system to challenge the rates being charged by the railways.
   Dorgan successfully included a provision in the Fiscal Year '08 Omnibus Appropriations bill that ensures that the fee for filing a complaint against the railroad is not any higher than what district courts charge to file a complaint, which is currently $350. Previously, some shippers had to pay over $100,000 to file a complaint with the Surface Transportation Board. The bill became law in December.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 