SENATE COMMITTEE CALLS FOR STUDY OF B-52 FLEET, SENS. DORGAN, CONRAD ANNOUNCE
  Sens. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) and Kent Conrad (D-ND) announced Friday the Senate Armed Services Committee has approved legislation blocking a cut in the military's B-52 fleet until an independent study is conducted analyzing the effect the drawdown would have on the nation's military capabilities. The legislation also provides for additional construction at Minot Air Force base and Hector International Airport in Fargo. 
   Dorgan and Conrad said the independent study will help the Department of Defense see the dramatic consequences of the proposed drawdown of the nation's cost-effective B-52 fleet.
   "We've been working hard to convince members of the Armed Services Committee to do something to preserve our B-52s, and I'm hopeful this independent study will help us convince the Department of Defense that retiring the B-52s is a bad idea," Dorgan said. "Our B-52 fleet is fully paid for, is cheaper to operate than the B-1 or B-2, and will be usable for several more decades. With America's military engaged in hot spots around the globe and with our future security needs unclear, it's especially critical that we make sure the Administration doesn't scrap these aircraft."
   "Senator Dorgan and I have been urging the Pentagon and our colleagues in Congress to reconsider plans to cut the number of B-52s in America's bomber force," Senator Conrad said. "The B-52 is the best bomb truck for the buck and sending them to the bone yard next year could have dire consequences for the U.S. With rogue nations looking to acquire nuclear capabilities we need to remain prepared for conflict overseas. We need to keep all our B-52s in the air."
   The amendment also includes $8 million to begin constructing a new air traffic complex at Minot Air Force Base. The projects will consolidate air traffic control operations and replace the existing 50-year-old tower. In addition, the legislation approves $171 million in funding for 575 military family housing units at the base, as well as an Air National Guard Predator Operations Center at Hector International Airport in Fargo.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 