SEN. DORGAN STAFF MEMBER KATIE DURICK CHOSEN AS NORTH DAKOTA'S CHERRY BLOSSOM PRINCESS
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) announced Thursday that Katie Durick, a Bismarck native and member of his Capitol Hill staff, has been selected to represent North Dakota as the state's Cherry Blossom Princess for the annual Cherry Blossom Festival in Washington, D.C. 
   Durick will represent the state in a week of Cherry Blossom activities. The festival celebrates the friendship between the American and Japanese people and is one of Washington's most popular public festivals. From the representatives of the 50 states, District of Columbia and U.S. territories, one will be chosen as national Cherry Blossom Queen and will travel to Japan to take part in the Cherry Blossom Festival in that nation.
   "We're proud to have a bright, young girl like Katie represent North Dakota in this year's Cherry Blossom Festival," Dorgan said. "This is a really special time in Washington, D.C., when the cherry blossoms are in full bloom and we commemorate the relationship our country has with Japan. Katie will represent our state and our country well as an ambassador of international goodwill."
   Durick was nominated by the North Dakota State Society. She was honored Wednesday night at a reception with North Dakota's congressional delegation, family members and friends. Her duties include representing North Dakota at Cherry Blossom activities throughout the week, including a visit to the White House. The national Cherry Blossom Queen will be chosen Friday.
   "Serving as North Dakota's Cherry Blossom Princess has been an amazing experience and an honor," Durick said.
   Durick, a 2002 Bismarck Century High School graduate, is the daughter of Blaine and Julie Durick of Bismarck and granddaughter of Larry and Claryce Erickson of Minot and Geraldine Durick of Columbus, North Dakota. She graduated magna cum laude with a degree in political science from the University of St. Thomas and has been working in Dorgan's office since 2005.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 