SEN. DORGAN: RESTORING FARM DISASTER PROGRAM, CAPPING FARM PROGRAM PAYMENTS ARE TOP PRIORITIES FOR FARM BILL
  U.S. Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND) told a Farm Bill public forum in Bismarck Monday he has three top priorities when the Senate takes up the legislation in September - preserving the family farm price safety net, restoring a permanent agricultural disaster assistance program, and putting a meaningful limit on federal farm program payments in order to better target help to family farmers. 
   "Preservation of a reliable safety net for family farmers is the biggest priority," Dorgan said. "That means farm price supports must be realistic, but it means more than that. It also means that when weather and crop disease disasters hit farm country or when grain prices collapse, family farmers have the protection of a safety net and a permanent disaster assistance program."
   Dorgan said the ag disaster package he finally got Congress to approve this year will bring $140 million in disaster assistance to North Dakota producers, but it took three years to convince the President to sign it. "If you genuinely care about the survival of family farms, that's no way to run a disaster assistance effort," Dorgan said. 
   Another top priority, Dorgan said, will be working to put a meaningful cap on farm program payments. "The farm program was not created to bankroll giant corporate agri-factories. It was created to help family farmers survive the unpredictable peaks and valleys of farm prices. That's a policy that works to benefit consumers as well, and we need to strengthen it. Bankrolling large corporate farmers who have all the resources they need to get through tough times, diverts needed resources away from family farmers, and frankly, jeopardizes public support for a federal farm program."
   Dorgan spoke at a public forum on the legislation in Bismarck that was sponsored by the Bismarck Tribune and the Farm and Ranch Guide.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 