SEN. DORGAN'S ACTION SUMMIT WILL EXPLORE WAYS TO BOOST NORTH DAKOTA'S RFID TECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY
  As part of his efforts to continue growing the burgeoning industry that brought Alien Technology to North Dakota, Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) will host the second in a series of Red River Valley Research Corridor Action Summits on Wednesday, August 11, at the Holiday Inn in Fargo. The summit, which will include some of the industry's major players from across the country, will focus on radio frequency identification (RFID) technology and how the region can play a role in growing one of the nation's most promising industries.  
   "I'm sponsoring this summit as a way to take a closer look at all of the pieces of the RFID industry and its vast potential for commercial and government activity. We'll discuss ideas about where the region goes from here in terms of tapping that potential," Dorgan said. "It just makes sense that with Alien already here on the ground, Fargo can become a hub for RFID technology and the high-paying jobs that come along with it." 
   In 2000, Dorgan used his position on the Senate Appropriations Committee to connect Morgan Hill, California-based Alien Technology - a world leader in RFID technology - to North Dakota State University through a federal contract with the Department of Defense. In July 2003, Alien announced it would build a plant in Fargo to manufacture "smart tags," which are tiny, pepper flake-sized tracking devices built with RFID technology. The company already has hired a handful of employees, and will eventually employ hundreds of high-tech workers at what could be the world's largest RFID plant. 
   Dorgan's RFID Action Summit will convene business leaders and members of the research community to explore ways to better tap into the RFID economy. Among the presenters at the summit: Stav Prodromou, President of Alien Technology; Alan Estevez, Assistant Deputy Under Secretary of Defense; Kerry Pauling, Director of Information Systems, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.; Sangtae "Sang" Kim, Director of the Division of Shared Cyberinfrastructure at the National Science Foundation; Don Hedger, President of Killdeer Mountain Manufacturing; and Dr. Al Joseph, a leading consultant to the microelectronics industry. 
   For more information on the event, contact the Research Corridor Coordinating Center at 888-775-0192 or go to www.theresearchcorridor.com.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 