SEN. DORGAN SAYS GARRISON MARINA WILL BE STEP CLOSER TO COMPLETION BY END OF WEEK
  U.S. Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND) said Monday a new Garrison Bay marina will take a significant step closer to completion this week as the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers accepts bids for construction on the project. Dorgan said construction could begin as early as this fall. 
   Dorgan is Chairman of the Senate Energy and Water Subcommittee, which funds the Army Corps of Engineers. The Corps set a Friday deadline for bids for the project, and Dorgan said he expects a number of contractors to bid on it. 
   The new marina will replace an older one which has become inoperable due to low water levels.
   "By the end of this week we will be a step closer to having a completed marina," Dorgan said. "North Dakota has been waiting a long time for this marina, and these bids will help move it off the drawing boards and onto the road to completion. Good access to Lake Sakakawea is critical to the health of our recreation and tourism industry, so this new marina will give the regional economy a real boost."
   Dorgan's comments were made to the Minot news media shortly before he delivered a speech to a Regional Economic Development Forum at Minot State University. 
   Dorgan chairs the Senate appropriations panel that funds the nation's energy projects. In remarks to the conference, he said North Dakota is emerging as a major force is both energy research and production as America charts a new energy future to become less dependent on foreign oil. 
   The Bakken Shale oil deposits that stretch from eastern Montana to western North Dakota, the state's coal reserves, and growing wind energy and renewable bio-fuels industries in the state represent "great economic potential" for North Dakota. 
   Energy research Dorgan has directed to the state, particularly basic research on building a hydrogen fuel economy, and requirements Dorgan helped put in place to require more use of renewable in the nation's automotive fleets, mean "increasingly America will look to North Dakota for solutions to our energy problems."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 