SEN. DORGAN'S BILL ADDRESSES HIGH RATE OF SUICIDE AMONG INDIAN YOUTH USING 'TELE-HEALTH'
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND), Vice Chairman of the Senate Indian Affairs Committee, introduced legislation today with Sen. John McCain (R-AZ) that is aimed at reducing the high rate of suicide among teenagers living on Indian reservations, taking another tack to move forward similar legislation he included last year in a major Indian health care package.  
   The bill would authorize the Secretary of Health and Human Services to direct $6 million for a four-year demonstration project aimed at increasing the availability of mental health and counseling services on Indian reservations. The grant would fund five tribes or tribal organizations that demonstrate a need to address Indian youth suicide or limited access to mental health services. The project expands the availability of telemental health services--bringing more counseling, professionals and suicide-prevention materials to rural tribal communities using telecommunications technology. 
   Dorgan offered similar language as an amendment to the Indian Health Care Improvement Act, which the Senate Indian Affairs Committee approved last year. The final version of that bill is still being negotiated, so Dorgan said he decided to offer the language in a separate bill as another way to advance the issue. 
   "The rate of suicide among teenagers living on reservations in the Great Plains is 10 times the national average," Dorgan said. "This is a sensitive issue, but without talking about it openly and making the broader public aware of the crisis, it's difficult to get the resources in place to help. I'm hopeful that as we take steps on a policy level to address the issue of Indian teen suicide, we will able to prevent the tragic loss of life that far too many in Indian Country have experienced." 
   Dorgan held the first-ever Senate hearings on Indian teen suicide last year in Bismarck and Washington, D.C. He said it's critical to bring public attention to the issue, which has reached epidemic levels on Indian reservations across the country. 
   "When young teens feel there is no hope, no alternative or path to a brighter future, it is all of our responsibility to do everything possible and say to them, 'You're not alone,'" Dorgan said. "We know there is a bona fide crisis in health care on our nation's Indian reservations. This bill directs funds to high-need, rural areas without enough health care professionals and counselors to adequately help the communities that are suffering the most, our Indian reservations." 
   Other cosponsors include Senators Kent Conrad (D-ND), Jeff Bingaman (D-NM), Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), Tim Johnson (D-SD) and Gordon Smith (R-OR).
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 