SEN. DORGAN ISSUES STATEMENT ON PRESIDENT'S FY 2007 BUDGET PROPOSAL
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) reacted Monday to the release of the President's Fiscal Year 2007 budget proposal. 
   The text of Dorgan's statement is below.  
   TEXT OF STATEMENT BY SENATOR BYRON DORGAN 
   February 6, 2006 
   Yet again, the Congress has received a budget proposal from the President that ignores critical needs in our country. It's time to take care of things here at home. 
   Our country has a record-high budget deficit, a record-high trade deficit, war commitments in Iraq and Afghanistan, a massive rebuilding project on the Gulf Coast, and yet the President and majority party in Congress continues to insist on pushing provide huge tax cuts to the wealthiest Americans. 
   I believe those choices are irresponsible. 
   In the last few years, it has been more and more difficult for everyday Americans to afford their prescription drugs and health care, to afford college, to make a living on the family farm. And yet, this budget proposes to cut Medicare and Medicaid, to hit farmers hard, and to cut student loan funding - at the same time the budget proposes giant tax cuts to the wealthiest 1 percent in this country. 
   This budget suggests a 5 percent across-the-board cut in farm payments, and decreases in crop insurance. And it cuts $35 billion from Medicare at a time when seniors are struggling to make sense of the prescription drug benefit. 
   It's a question of choosing to spend taxpayer dollars in the areas we need them the most. We have responsibilities overseas, and we also have responsibilities to our veterans, our seniors, hard-working Americans - and a responsibility to get this nation's fiscal house in order. 
   There is waste and abuse in the federal budget, and I am working hard in the Senate to offer proposals for spending cuts. 
   But, we need to continue decent funding for veterans, health care, education, farm programs and Indian health care, and more.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 