CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE REPORT OBTAINED BY SEN. DORGAN SHOWS PARK SERVICE MISINTERPRETING RULES ON THINNING OVERGROWN ELK HERD
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) released an analysis Tuesday that he has received from lawyers at the Congressional Research Service (CRS) showing that the Park Service is misinterpreting the law and ignoring their own rules with respect to thinning the elk herd in the Theodore Roosevelt National Park.  
   The Park Service has maintained that federal law would have to be changed in order for them to allow North Dakota hunters to thin the overpopulated elk herd in the park. 
   Dorgan said the CRS lawyers have now completed an analysis of both the federal law and the Park Service rules, and they maintain that the Park Service has all the authority it needs to allow North Dakota hunters to be involved in thinning that elk herd - operating, for the purpose of the hunt, as agents of the Park Service. 
   "This report shows the Park Service is wrong when it says it has no authority to use volunteers from North Dakota to thin this herd," Dorgan said. "We need to manage this herd in a way that preserves the integrity of our national park, but also protects taxpayer dollars. It makes no sense to spend millions of dollars to bring in professional sharpshooters and helicopters when we have qualified North Dakotans who would do it for free." 
   The controversy arose when the Park Service insisted it had no such authority and, among other options, would instead consider hiring federally employed sharpshooters and using helicopters to haul the carcasses out of the Badlands. 
   Dorgan disagreed with that approach and said he favored allowing North Dakota hunters, in an arrangement with state and federal authorities, to be involved in thinning that elk herd. 
   Dorgan introduced legislation in the Senate to make it clear that the Park Service had such authority, but he had also asked the Congressional Research Service for their evaluation of the current law, as well as Park Service rules. Dorgan said the CRS analysis shows that the Park Service is simply wrong when they assert that they cannot allow North Dakota hunters to be involved. 
   Dorgan has sent the CRS evaluation to the Park Service and hopes that they will read it and use their authority to make thoughtful, common-sense decisions about how to deal with the over-populated elk herd in the Badlands.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 