SENATE VOTES TO BAN BUTANE LIGHTERS FROM PASSENGER AIRCRAFT
  The Senate approved by unanimous consent legislation Tuesday banning butane lighters from commercial airliners, closing a terrorism loophole first identified earlier this year by Sens. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) and Ron Wyden (D-OR).  
   The two lawmakers wrote the legislation approved by the Senate which directs the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) to ban the lighters from passenger flights. It was added to the National Intelligence Reform Act of 2004. 
   "Since we know the FBI has concluded that attempted shoe-bomber Richard Reid would have succeeded in blowing up a plane with 197 people on board if he'd had a butane lighter, rather than matches, it makes no sense to continue to allow them on board," U.S. Senator Byron Dorgan said. "The TSA should have banned them immediately, without prodding from Congress," he added. "They didn't, so Congress has to act. This is a victory for safety and for common sense." 
   "The Senate voted on Tuesday to support this important measure to finally close a glaring security gap threatening the safety of American air travelers," said Wyden. "If the TSA will not act, then Congress will move to take these tools out of the hands of terrorists." 
   Dorgan and Wyden have pushed to have the lighters banned for nearly a year. In October 2003, they wrote Admiral James Loy, then head of the Transportation Security Administration, to urge a review and reversal of the policy that allowed the lighters on board. Loy responded with a letter in December, in which he dismissed their concern, claiming that many people carry lighters that have "great value or sentiment" attached to them. 
   The two senators rejected that view and continued to push for a ban. In March of this year, TSA's new Director, Rear Admiral David Stone, promised to review the policy. In August, Homeland Security Director Asa Hutchinson told the Senate Commerce Committee that a recommendation had been made on the rule, but refused to tell the committee what that recommendation had been. 
   The Senate is currently considering the intelligence reform legislation.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Sanjay Talwani, 202/224-2551
 
 