SEN. DORGAN'S UPPER GREAT PLAINS TECHNOLOGY CONFERENCE OFFERS GLIMPSE OF DIGITAL AGE
  Sen. Byron Dorgan's (D-ND) seventh annual Upper Great Plains Technology Conference set for next Monday and Tuesday will feature workshops on some of the world's most sophisticated technologies, from futuristic cars and biometric identification to the crisp, clear notes of digital music and breathtaking clarity of digital television.  
   "These exciting workshops offer an expansive view of the technology vision for North Dakota and our country. For two days, the Fargodome will be the center of the technology industry, and I'm thrilled some of our country's leading digital experts will join me at the event," Dorgan said. 
   A major workshop highlighting how technology can be used in North Dakota in the event of natural disasters and homeland security breaches will be held Tuesday, October 11. The workshop will be led by Gregory Rohde, Executive Director of the E9-1-1 Institute, which supports using technology to upgrade emergency communications and improve public policy in this area. 
   "An Introduction to Biometric Identification" and "Digital Assault" are two other workshops focusing on technology and security that will take place Tuesday. "Biometric Identification" allows increased security for businesses by scanning fingers, eyes and walking style. The "Digital Assault" workshop features a panel of experts offering North Dakotans easy tips to help protect them from identity theft, one of the fastest growing white-collar crimes in America. That panel includes a representative from the Federal Trade Commission and the Director of Security Response at Symantec Corp. 
   The conference also includes two interactive workshops discussing the popular growth in digital music, photography and television. Attendees will have the opportunity to learn how to store digital media, learn about the new interactive realm of digital TV, and the technology best suited to bring North Dakota into the digital era. 
   The "Cutting-Edge Deep Brain Research" workshop focuses on the ability to dig deep into the unknown subconscious and disease-fighting mechanisms in the brain using high-tech equipment at the University of North Dakota's School of Medicine. Dorgan has directed federal appropriations toward this effort, citing its "vast potential to unlock many medical mysteries within the brain."
 
 