CONGRESSIONAL DELEGATION, FARGO LEADERS PRESS TOP AIR FORCE OFFICIALS ON IMPORTANCE OF HAPPY HOOLIGANS
  Sens. Byron Dorgan and Kent Conrad and Rep. Earl Pomeroy today led a delegation of Fargo community leaders to the Pentagon to stress to top defense officials the strength, accomplishments and military significance of North Dakota Air National Guard's 119th Fighter Wing, better known as the "Happy Hooligans."  
   Based at Fargo's Hector Field, the 119th Fighter Wing is positioning itself with the help of the delegation to survive the next round of military base closings. The Defense Department will make recommendations to the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission by next May on which military bases around the country should be shuttered. 
   "It's clear that the Air Force understands that the Happy Hooligans are the best Air Guard unit in the nation, and at today's meeting we emphasized their outstanding performance record, which should strengthen their position for the upcoming BRAC round," the delegation said in a joint statement. "The meetings today were important to illustrate the merits of Fargo as a home for the 119th." 
   The team from Fargo included Mayor Bruce Furness; Dick Walstead, head of the Fargo-Moorhead Air National Guard Support Group; Darrol Schroeder, of the Fargo AirSho; Shawn Dobberstein, of the Municipal Airport Authority; and David Martin, of the Fargo Moorhead Chamber of Commerce. They met with key BRAC decision makers, including General Michael Moseley, Air Force Vice Chief of Staff; Nelson Gibbs, Assistant Secretary of the Air Force; and Philip Grone, Principal Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Installations and Environment. 
   "This is family stuff to us. The Air Force is a total team," said General Moseley, the second highest-ranking officer in the Air Force. "I am a big fan of the congressional delegation and a big fan of the bases in North Dakota. Please be patient as we work through these issues." 
   During the series of high-level meetings, the delegation stressed the importance of the Hooligans to both North Dakota and the nation. They highlighted the strengths of the unit and the Hooligans' remarkable record. They also noted that Hector Field is one of the best Air National Guard facilities in the country. In addition, the delegation described the high quality of life in Fargo and the well-educated population that serves as a pool of personnel for the Air Guard unit. 
   "Nowhere will you find greater community support for the 119th Fighter Wing and their mission than in Fargo," the delegation said. "And we will continue to fight to ensure that the Happy Hooligans call Fargo home."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Sanjay Talwani, 202/224-2551
 
 