BILL INTRODUCED TO SAVE FARM SERVICE AGENCY OFFICES
  U.S. Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD) has introduced a measure today, along with Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND), Senator Kent Conrad (D-ND), Senator Ben Nelson (D-NE), Senator Max Baucus (D-MT) and Senator Jon Tester (D-MT), to stop Farm Service Agency (FSA) county office closures. The bill would halt the FSA office closures for one year from the date of the bill's enactment. 
   A similar companion bill has already been introduced in the House of Representatives by Representative Stephanie Herseth Sandlin. Additional language in the Johnson version of the bill would allow for offices with zero employees for six months within a two-year timeframe before the farm bill to be eligible for consolidation. 
   "It is absurd to consider closing FSA offices so close to a new farm bill. The USDA's FSA county office consolidation efforts only undermine our federal farm safety net. Our producers rely on FSA county offices for critical farm program information," Johnson said. "The USDA also failed to take workload into account in their closure proposal, and South Dakota offices consistently rank at the top of FSA's national workload." This is the first legislation Johnson has introduced since officially returning to the Senate this week. 
   Senate Democrats worked to include language in the Fiscal Year 2007 Agriculture Appropriations bill which prohibits USDA from closing any office until public meetings have been conducted in each impacted county and 120 days has passed after USDA has notified the state Delegation and both the House and Senate Agriculture and Appropriations Committees. 
   "With the farm bill still under consideration, now is not the time to change FSA county offices," said Senator Byron Dorgan. "Farmers and ranchers need to know that their county offices will be available to provide them with information, especially when there are changes to the farm program. Closure or consolidation of county offices will create additional burdens on producers in the form of longer drive times and disconnection from the USDA programs they count on." 
   "Our bill delays any closures for a year because USDA's plan simply isn't rational. The North Dakota Farm Service Agency has offices with significant workload and that are short of employees. It is completely inappropriate to close those offices while the agency has offices elsewhere with minimal work and that may be within close proximity to other offices. I'd also like to see a USDA plan that deals with all their field service center agencies, not just the Farm Service Agency," said Senator Kent Conrad.
  "Secretary Johanns recently announced that USDA would close 10 FSA offices in Nebraska. With drought relief sign-ups beginning soon and distributions later this year, and with a new farm bill being developed, it doesn't make much sense to alter the on-the-ground resources available to producers right now," said Nebraska's Senator Ben Nelson. "This legislation will help ensure that we're not pulling the rug out from under our farmers during a period of change."
   "The proposal to close FSA offices in Montana and in other Farm states is a non-starter," Senator Max Baucus said. "FSA offices provide vital services to our farmers and ranchers and that's why I've been fighting these proposed closures. I'm committed to working together with my colleagues to keep them open and this legislation is another way to help do that. I applaud Senator Johnson for his strong leadership on this critical issue to rural America."
   "Rural communities are the backbone of Montana and this entire country and I know firsthand how important FSA offices are to rural America. Family farms and ranches face incredible challenges. We should be working to make it easier, not harder, on them," said Senator Jon Tester, a grain farmer from Big Sandy, Mont. "This amendment is a step in the right direction and it will keep these offices open and the resources, security and opportunities that they provide available."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 