DELEGATION CONTINUES EFFORT TO MAINTAIN NORTH DAKOTA BASES
  Sens. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) and Kent Conrad (D-ND) and Rep. Earl Pomeroy (D-ND) met Thursday with Assistant Secretary Nelson Gibbs, the civilian official in charge of the internal Air Force base closure process, to continue to press the case for North Dakota's installations in Grand Forks, Minot, and Fargo.  
   The meeting is another in a continuing series of visits with top Air Force and Defense Department officials about North Dakota's military installations in preparation for the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission activities. The Defense Department is scheduled to release its list of bases recommended for closure or consolidation May 16.
   The delegation said they made the case to the Assistant Secretary that the Grand Forks Air Force Base not only has a critical military mission as a core tanker base, but is one of the finest air bases in the entire country. "The Grand Forks base has no encroachment or environmental issues as many other major military bases in the country do, and it performs a critical military mission," the delegation said in a joint statement.
   Similarly, the delegation made the case that the Minot base is also one of the nation's most important air bases, pointing to its missions involving the Minuteman Missiles and B-52 Bombers. "It, too, is free from encroachment and environmental problems that exist in some other parts of the United States. The importance of that fact cannot be overstated when it comes to quality of training conditions at bases around the country," the delegation said. 
   The lawmakers said the communities of Grand Forks, Minot, and Fargo have done an "extraordinary job" of documenting the value of the air bases to Pentagon officials. 
   They said they also discussed the Fargo Air National Guard Unit during the meeting, making the case that North Dakota's "Happy Hooligans" unit has won top national honors over the years and deserves to be retained.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 