SEN. DORGAN: BUSH'S TRADE POLICIES HAVE FAILED; COLOMBIA FREE TRADE AGREEMENT IS MORE OF SAME
  U.S. Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND) today issued the following statement in response to President Bush's pushing for the Colombia Free Trade Agreement:  
   "When President Bush took office in 2001, the U.S. trade deficit was $429 billion. In seven years, under this president's trade policies, the U.S. trade deficit is $815 billion. Yet, today President Bush is demanding that Congress do more of the same by passing his free trade agreement with Colombia. 
   "The record is clear. The President's trade policies continue to saddle the U.S. with more debt even as they result in shipping more U.S. jobs overseas. 
   "The President says the agreement he has reached with Colombia will create free trade between the U.S. and Colombia. He says Colombian exports come to the U.S. with no tariff and yet many of the U.S. exports to Colombia are burdened with a 35 percent tariff. 
   "There is a way for the President to fix that without concocting another failed free trade agreement. He can simply tell Colombia, as he should have some years ago, that in exchange for our sending billions of dollars for military assistance to fight the guerillas, Colombia is going to have to eliminate tariffs on American goods being sold in Colombia. 
   "It is time that Congress tells this President and future Presidents that we are for trade and plenty of it, but we demand that trade agreements be fair to our country's economic interest as well. 
   "When the President says he demands this Congress pass this agreement in a prescribed time, I say that he has little standing to demand anything in trade policy since the trade deficit has doubled in just seven years under his watch. 
   "It's my hope that, at long last, the Congress will tell the President that we will only vote for trade agreements when they are fair to our country's economic interests.
   Contact: Justin Kitsch and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 