SEN. DORGAN ANNOUNCES RELEASE DATE OF BAKKEN SHALE STUDY HE REQUESTED
  U.S. Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND) announced today that an eagerly awaited report on the estimate of undiscovered, technically recoverable oil resources in the Bakken Shale formation of North Dakota and Montana will be released Thursday, April 10. 
   Dorgan and the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) will host a briefing to announce the study on Thursday in Washington, DC. More details will be available in the coming days.
   The USGS has undertaken the study of the Bakken Formation in support of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act of 2000 legislation and, at Senator Dorgan's request, commenced the assessment with a briefing in Bismarck, North Dakota with interested stakeholders. The study will provide an evaluation of the Bakken Shale geological formation and an estimate of the undiscovered, technically recoverable oil resources in the region. Dorgan said an authoritative estimate of the region's geology should help spark even more investment in North Dakota's oil industry.
   A previous USGS study in 1999 by Dr. Leigh Price was never released because the author died before it could be peer-reviewed. That study estimated substantial amounts of oil generated within the Bakken Shale formation: the real question is, how much of this oil is recoverable with existing technology. In 1995, the USGS assessment of technically recoverable oil resources in the Bakken was 151 million barrels of oil.
   Dorgan asked the U.S. Geological Survey to complete a new study that would give the oil industry and the public a good estimate of the technically recoverable oil resources that exist in the Bakken Shale.
   "It's clear that the Bakken Shale formation contains a significant amount of oil, and its development could be a boost for North Dakota's economy and U.S. energy independence," Dorgan said. "This study will give us an up-to-date picture of the potential for oil development in the region."
   Contact: Justin Kitsch and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 