SEN. DORGAN SAYS BUSH ADMINISTRATION MUST PUSH CHINA TO REOPEN MARKET TO AMERICAN BEEF
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) pressed the Administration in a letter Friday to make the reopening of China's markets to U.S. beef a top priority when President Bush meets with Chinese officials this month. 
   Dorgan, who sent the letter with a bipartisan group of senators, said that despite the fact that the United States has implemented new and scientifically sound methods to prove its beef is safe, China has refused for more than two years to accept American beef. Bush's upcoming meeting with Chinese President Hu Jintao is a perfect opportunity to pressure the country to end its unjustified ban on U.S. beef, Dorgan said.
   Other senators signing the letter include Sam Brownback (R-KS), Ken Salazar (D-CO), Larry Craig (R-ID), Mike Crapo (R-ID), Kent Conrad (D-ND) and Jim Talent (R-MO).
   "China's ban on American beef has gone on far too long," Dorgan said. "It's time we found the backbone to stand up for our economic interests in trade with China. They saturate our market with their products and then keep their markets closed to ours, and we shouldn't stand for it. Our beef is completely safe and the President needs to make clear to the Chinese that we won't tolerate this situation any longer."
   Dorgan noted that the United States' trade deficit with China has been growing precipitously. Last month, the U.S. Department of Commerce announced a record $68.5 billion trade deficit for January 2006.
   "Nearly every month our country sets a new record trade deficit. The kind of trade policies we let China get away with, such as their ban on American beef, is one reason," Dorgan said. "Our trade representatives are selling our country off, piece by piece, shipping American jobs overseas, and draining our national financial resources. It's time we turned things around and we can start by eliminating China's groundless ban on U.S. beef."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 