SEN. DORGAN WANTS ANSWER BEFORE HHS SECRETARY LEAVES OFFICE
  With Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary Tommy Thompson set to leave office soon, Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) called on him Tuesday to "stop dragging his feet" and issue a response to Dorgan's Prairie Prescriptions Pilot Project before he steps down.  
   "The clock has run out," Dorgan said. "North Dakotans could save tens of millions a year with this plan that is just sitting on the desk of Secretary Thompson, who is now about to leave his position. It's time for an answer." 
   Dorgan submitted his plan-a two-year pilot project that would allow licensed North Dakota pharmacists to purchase FDA-approved prescription drugs from licensed pharmacists in Canada-to Thompson in March. For eight months now, all Dorgan has heard is that a response would come "relatively soon." 
   In a letter Dorgan sent to Thompson Tuesday, he said, "You told me that North Dakotans would get a response on this proposal, which could help dramatically reduce the costs of their medicines. I hope you will honor that commitment and give me your decision before leaving office." 
   Dorgan helped write a provision in the nation's new Medicare law that allows drug re-importation programs with Canada, provided that the HHS Secretary first certifies that safety and cost-savings would result. More than 1,000 North Dakota individuals and groups have voiced their support for the Prairie Prescriptions plan, including health and consumer groups, county commissions, city councils and more than 900 individuals. Canada and the U.S. have a nearly identical chains-of-custody for their prescription drugs, so there is no safety concern, Dorgan said. In fact, the Senator added, "safety is further enhanced by the fact this plan keeps local pharmacists part of the process." 
   "There is simply no excuse for further delay, or to continue to foot-drag and claim safety concerns about the Prairie Prescription plan," Dorgan said. "If there were real issues, the Secretary has had more than ample time to document them. After all this time, North Dakotans deserve an answer and a positive one at that." 
   To hear Senator Dorgan speak about this and other issues, see http://dorgan.senate.gov/newsroom/newsaudio.cfm 
   For a copy of the letter to Secretary Thompson, see http://dorgan.senate.gov/newsroom/extras/120704thompson.PDF
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Sanjay Talwani, 202/224-2551. 
 
 