DELEGATION SECURES COMMITMENT FOR DEVILS LAKE VETS CLINIC
  Senators Byron Dorgan and Kent Conrad and Congressman Earl Pomeroy today announced that the Department of Veteran's Affairs (VA) Undersecretary for Health has approved a proposal to establish a VA outreach clinic in Devils Lake. The clinic is scheduled to open in 2009. 
   "This is a terrific day for North Dakota's veterans, especially those in the middle of our state who previously had to travel hundreds of miles for the care they need and deserve," the delegation said in a joint statement. "Our government has a responsibility to care for the men and women who have worn our nation's uniform. The opening of the Devils Lake VA clinic is one important way we can honor their service and sacrifice."
   Devils Lake was one of the rural communities identified through the VA CARES initiative as having access issues to medical care due to the distance veterans had to travel to a VA clinic.
   The establishment of the Devils Lake clinic is the result of a five-year effort by Senators Conrad and Dorgan and Congressman Pomeroy to make health care more readily available to North Dakota's veterans.
   From 2002 to 2004, Senators Dorgan and Conrad participated in the VA CARES Commission process. The Commission performed a comprehensive evaluation of all VA health care services to determine how best to meet the growing and diverse health care needs of veterans across the country. 
   Due in part to the delegation's efforts, the CARES Commission placed a greater emphasis on meeting the needs of veterans in rural areas. The VA approved five new clinics in North Dakota to supplement existing clinics in Bismarck, Grafton and Minot, as well as the Medical Center in Fargo. Community based clinics in Williston, Jamestown and Dickinson recently opened.
   Senator Dorgan, Senator Conrad and Congressman Pomeroy have written the VA Undersecretary of Health calling on the VA to keep its commitment to opening a clinic in Grand Forks Air Force Base.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 