SEN. DORGAN TO HOST ACTION SUMMIT ON UNMANNED AERIAL VEHICLES MARCH 22 IN GRAND FORKS
  Sen. Byron Dorgan announced Tuesday he will convene a Red River Valley Research Corridor Action Summit on Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) Wednesday, March 22, at the University of North Dakota's (UND) School of Aerospace Sciences.  
   Dorgan said the Action Summit will bring together area residents and federal officials from the Department of Defense and other agencies to discuss actions that can be taken to speed the deployment of UAVs to the new mission at Grand Forks Air Force Base and 119th Fighter Wing of the North Dakota Air National Guard. The event also will be ideal for a discussion on opportunities the new UAV mission will present to the community and local businesses in the Research Corridor, Dorgan said. 
   "The new UAV mission is an exciting development for the Grand Forks Air Force Base, the 119th Fighter Wing and the community, but we have a lot of work to do to prepare," Dorgan said. "We need to start planning not only to accommodate the mission but to make use of the opportunities that it presents to the region. By bringing together federal and military officials and the community I hope we'll be able to use this Action Summit to find ways to further expand this mission and the Research Corridor." 
   The officials Dorgan will bring to UND for the Action Summit include a member of the Department of Defense Unmanned Aerial Systems (UAS) Roadmap Planning Task Force, who will brief attendees on the military's long-term plans for UAVs. Representatives from the Air Force will discuss the force structure plans for Grand Forks Air Force Base, as well as the UAV acquisition and basing plan. Dorgan also has invited representatives from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and the Department of Homeland Security, who will discuss airspace issues and the use of UAVs in homeland defense. 
   The public is invited to attend the Action Summit. For more information, call the Red River Valley Research Corridor Coordinating Center at 1-888-775-0192 or RSVP by e-mail to delore@theresearchcorridor.com.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 