DELEGATION CALLS ON AGRICULTURE SECRETARY TO TAKE IMMEDIATE ACTION ON DISASTER ASSISTANCE
  With North Dakota farmers and ranchers facing a wide variety of disaster conditions, Sens. Byron Dorgan and Kent Conrad and Rep. Earl Pomeroy today sent a letter to Agriculture Secretary Ann Veneman, urging her to take emergency action to ease the situation.  
   The letter calls on Veneman to take several steps to help farmers and ranchers in different parts of the state affected by either flooding or drought. In the state's northern tier, an estimated one to two million acres of farmland either couldn't be planted this spring or had crops flooded out. Meanwhile, drought in southwestern North Dakota has left ranchers with scant crops and a lack of hay for livestock feed. 
   The delegation asks Veneman to immediately open up Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) land for haying and grazing. They also ask for flexibility in crop insurance rules to allow cover crops to be planted, hayed or grazed without a reduction in payments. They also seek the use of Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) funds to defray the cost of acquiring or transporting feed for livestock. 
   In addition, the letter asks Veneman to endorse federal disaster legislation that Senators Conrad and Dorgan have introduced in the Senate, and Congressman Pomeroy has offered in the House. 
   "We need urgent action by the Secretary to open this land to haying and grazing in order to make hay available to livestock producers," Dorgan said. 
   "Between flooded farms in the North and parched pastureland in the Southwest, North Dakota is dealing with twin disasters," Conrad said. "Our response should be no different to these disasters than if it were a hurricane or a tornado. Our farmers and ranchers need relief, and they need it today." 
   "The weather-related disasters we have seen in North Dakota have crippled hundreds of farm operations across the state," Pomeroy said. "For many farmers and ranchers, one disaster-ridden season is enough to cause real hardships for farm families. USDA needs to understand the unique and dire situation facing our producers and respond accordingly." 
   To view the delegation's letter to Veneman, go to http://dorgan.senate.gov/newsroom/extras/070704veneman.PDF.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 