SEN. DORGAN INTRODUCES BILL TO GIVE BOOST TO WIND, CLEAN COAL, OTHER NORTH DAKOTA ENERGY SOURCES
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) has introduced legislation to make a long-term commitment to help grow the nation's wind energy industry. Dorgan's bill would extend for 10 years a key incentive that has helped North Dakota tap into its potential as the "Saudi Arabia of wind," with nearly 700 megawatts of wind energy online or in the planning stages. 
   Dorgan, chairman of the Senate Subcommittee on Energy, said that by extending the federal "renewable energy production tax credit" for a full 10 years, his bill sends a clear signal of support for wind and other renewable energy that will help attract investors to the growing industry. Since the renewable energy production tax credit was enacted in 1992, it has been extended in one- or two-year increments and has been allowed to expire three times. It is currently set to expire on December 31, 2008. Nevertheless, the tax credit has been cited as key to the development of wind energy projects.
   The bill also provides incentives to help electric cooperatives and investor-owned utilities develop new power plants that would make use of North Dakota's vast lignite coal resources while capturing greenhouse gas emissions. It also provides tax incentives to help existing facilities install equipment that would capture and store greenhouse gases, which could be used to enhance oil recover and for other purposes.
   Another incentive in the bill would encourage the development of new interstate transmission lines, allowing North Dakota to further tap its abundant wind, coal, and other energy resources.
   "North Dakota has more capacity than any other state to contribute to our nation's energy future, and this bill will help us tap that potential," Dorgan said. "Our oil and gas industries have long enjoyed permanent tax incentives, and it's time we gave renewables the same benefit. This bill gives meaningful, long-term support to our renewable energy, coal, and other energy resources. It will also give a key resource to help build new transmission lines so North Dakota can play an even larger role in achieving energy security and attract more investment and high-paying jobs to our state."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 