DELEGATION JOINS ENERGY SECRETARY IN APPLAUDING SUCCESS OF DAKOTA GASIFICATION COMPANY
  Sens. Byron Dorgan and Kent Conrad and Congressman Earl Pomeroy today applauded the success of Dakota Gasification Company at a Capitol Hill ceremony with company officials and U.S. Energy Secretary Samuel Bodman. 
   Dakota Gasification Company officials presented a symbolic check to Secretary Bodman to commemorate a revenue-sharing agreement with the Department of Energy. The company is paying $39.2 million this year to the Department of Energy as the federal government's share of the revenue earned from natural gas sales.
   The congressional delegation has worked to secure federal loan guarantees for the gasification plant to help it get off the ground and reach profitability. Today, Senators Dorgan and Conrad and Congressman Pomeroy continue to work to spur the development of North Dakota's vast and diverse energy resources and said the success of the Dakota Gasification Company is an example of how the state's resources can be harnessed to provide good-paying jobs and help move the nation toward energy independence.
   Dakota Gasification Company is a subsidiary of Bismarck-based Basin Electric Power Cooperative. Their Great Plains Synfuels Plant makes use of North Dakota's lignite coal resource to produce pipeline-quality natural gas. Carbon dioxide that is captured during the process is sent to oil fields in Canada, where it is pumped into the ground to enhance oil recovery and, at the same time, sequester a gas that contributes to global climate change.
   "North Dakota is blessed with an abundance of energy resources - both fossil fuels like coal and oil and renewables such as wind," said Senator Dorgan, chairman of the Senate Energy Subcommittee and the Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee. "We need to work to develop those resources in a sustainable way to help move our country toward energy security. The Dakota Gasification Company should be a model in those efforts, and I'm going to work to bring more creative projects like this to North Dakota."
   "The Great Plains Synfuels Plant is one of the best examples of how federal loan guarantees have worked to promote new energy development. The deal between Basin and the Energy Department has allowed the U.S. Treasury to recoup nearly $1 billion in shared revenue and unused tax credits," said Senator Kent Conrad, the chairman of the Agriculture Committee's Subcommittee on Energy, Science and Technology. "Federal investment in the development of domestic sources of energy is a sound policy that will help wean our nation off its dependence on foreign sources of energy."
   "I applaud Basin Electric for working with the federal government to help make North Dakota a national leader in cutting-edge carbon sequestration technology," Congressman Pomeroy said. "The Synfuels plant has shown the success that can come from public-private partnership."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt, Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 