SENS. DORGAN, SNOWE CALL ON PHARMACEUTICAL INDUSTRY TO PROVIDE DATA ON OFFSHORE MANUFACTURING
  In a letter sent today to ten CEOs of the largest pharmaceutical firms, U.S. Senators Byron Dorgan (D-ND) and Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) requested information on the extent to which those firms are outsourcing drug manufacturing to suppliers in foreign nations and the level of safety oversight which is presently employed over that production. "Today, nearly half of our medications contain ingredients made abroad, and we are learning that many of these are made in nations such as China where their manufacture can occur without adequate regulatory oversight," Snowe said. "It is indisputable Americans must be assured that - from start to finish - the production and handling of their medications is properly overseen by FDA. Yet as more than 700 firms in China produce drug ingredients used in our medications FDA is performing but a few dozen inspections in China each year.  
 Safety is only ensured through prudent action. That is why we have authored legislation to do such things as inspect foreign drug facilities and implement such measures as pedigrees and anticounterfeiting technologies - and why our legislation both empowers and finances FDA to take such measures. The data we are requesting today is critical to inform us all of the extent of the threat, and help direct our efforts to assure that proper standards are enforced." "The GAO says the FDA doesn't even know how many foreign factories are manufacturing products marketed in the U.S. by the big drug companies, much less where they are or whether they are being inspected," Dorgan said. "We hope this letter will help us determine exactly what the big drug companies are getting from other countries, and where they are getting it." The text of the letter follows: As you know, we are the lead sponsors of legislation with broad bipartisan support that would permit the safe importation of more affordable FDA-approved prescription drugs from Canada and several other countries. The pharmaceutical industry has opposed this legislation by claiming that consumers would be placed at risk by such imports, despite the abundant evidence to the contrary. Given your position on our bill, it is disconcerting that, according to a report in the Washington Post (FDA Scrutiny Scant In India, China as Drugs Pour Into U.S., June 17, 2007), more than 40 percent of the active ingredients in pharmaceutical products sold in the U.S. now originate in China and India - countries with inadequate regulatory regimes to ensure these ingredients are of high quality and produced under Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP). Analysts estimate that such outsourcing by manufacturers will double over the next 15 years. The Government Accountability Office (GAO) just reported that the likelihood of FDA inspection of a foreign plant is disturbingly low, with only 7 percent of such facilities inspected annually. Worse yet, the GAO also determined that the FDA does not know how many foreign facilities are actually producing products for the U.S. market. We are concerned about the need for adequate oversight of foreign manufacturing facilities. To that end, we request that you provide us with the following information: * Do you own, operate or contract with manufacturing facilities outside of the United States? If so, please list every country outside of the U.S. in which you own, operate or contract with manufacturing facilities, and describe what steps you take to verify that these facilities operate under Good Manufacturing Practices. * When was the last time the FDA inspected each facility that you own, operate or contract with outside of the U.S.? Please list the three most recent inspections. * Do you purchase any ingredients for your pharmaceutical products from China or India? If so, please list every facility from which you have purchased in these countries during the last five years. * What steps do you take to ensure that the active ingredients you purchase from chemical companies in China and India are produced under Good Manufacturing Practices? Does your company have its own inspection program? If so, how often does your company inspect these facilities? * What steps have you taken to make your products less susceptible to counterfeiting?
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 