OFFICIALS DEDICATE NASA 'FLYING LAB' TODAY AT GRAND FORKS AIR FORCE BASE
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) saw the dividends today from his efforts over the years to connect NASA and the University of North Dakota (UND), as officials from government, the university and NASA welcomed the DC-8 flying laboratory to its new home at Grand Forks Air Force Base.  
   "NASA could have chosen any number of locations across the country to base this flying laboratory, but they chose Grand Forks, North Dakota," Dorgan said. "That didn't happen by chance, it happened because the science and aerospace programs here at UND, its students and researchers, and the personnel at Grand Forks Air Force Base are truly the best in the nation. NASA and UND have had a great relationship over the years, but this is the ultimate partnership." 
   Since 2000, Dorgan has earmarked more than $10 million in NASA funds for UND's Upper Midwest Aerospace Consortium (UMAC). Last week, Dorgan secured another $3 million for UMAC as a member of the conference committee that negotiated a final version of the Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations bill. These earmarks have been leveraged to secure several competitive awards and allowed UMAC to submit a proposal to oversee and operate the DC-8. Dorgan worked closely with NASA officials, the Air Force base, and Dr. George Seielstad, director of the Northern Great Plains Center for People and the Environment at UMAC, in the effort to bring the aircraft to UND. 
   Earlier this year, UND signed a five-year, $25 million agreement with NASA to maintain the plane, operate its missions and serve the many scientists worldwide whose research depends on the DC-8 aircraft. The flying laboratory arrived at Grand Forks International Airport September 14, while construction on the runway at the Air Force Base could be completed. 
   The plane's scientific missions include tracking pollution, measuring the depth of the hole in the ozone, and studying the chemistry of the atmosphere. It brings with it 15 full-time employees and will be a boon to UND's aerospace program and the Red River Valley Research Corridor, Dorgan said. 
   "It is a privilege to be given the opportunity to enable the best scientists in the world to advance our knowledge of the earth's environment," Dr. Seielstad said. "We are grateful to Senator Dorgan for his tenacious efforts to make this collaboration between NASA and UND a reality." 
   Dorgan, a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, first forged a relationship between NASA and UND when he brought former NASA administrator Dan Goldin to the school in the 1990s. The subsequent earmarks helped develop that relationship and today's DC-8 dedication "is the best outcome I could have ever envisioned," Dorgan said.
 
 