SEN. DORGAN SAYS EFFORTS TO FOSTER HYDROGEN-BASED ECONOMY ARE PAYING OFF
  Surrounded by examples of hydrogen-powered technology already coming into use, Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) said Monday the nation is well on its way to meeting significant targets he convinced Congress to set for creating a new hydrogen economy that can help move America away from its dependence on foreign oil to new energy independence.  
   "New technologies are increasingly replacing old ones in the lives of everyday Americans," Dorgan told the Hydrogen Energy Action Summit he sponsored in Grand Forks Monday. "One of the reasons for that is that our country now has a firm plan, with progress measured against specific time-tables and goals. That means researchers, businesses, and industries can see that we are serious and committed to this effort, and they are choosing to become a part of it." Dorgan organized the Hydrogen Energy Action Summit to help connect researchers, government leaders and businesses with ongoing hydrogen research at North Dakota's colleges and universities. 
   He also unveiled an official plaque designating the Energy and Environmental Research Center (EERC) a "National Center for Hydrogen Technology" during his stop here, noting the key role North Dakota is playing in research that is fueling the transition to a more hydrogen-based economy. The specific targets and timetables for moving toward a hydrogen economy were established by Congress when Dorgan inserted them in the federal energy bill that passed Congress earlier this year. They call for 100,000 hydrogen-fueled vehicles to be on the road by 2010 and 2.5 million by 2020. Those goals are attainable, Dorgan said - hydrogen has moved beyond the realm of research and into a state where it is increasingly being integrated to real-life situations. "I've always said that if we have the leadership to set targets and the will to meet them, we can make progress very quickly," Dorgan said. "We're surrounded today by groups like the EERC and others, who looked at the way we power our vehicles and decided something needs to change. When we look at the future of transportation, hydrogen emerges as one of the most promising technologies that will help us shed our dangerous dependence on foreign sources of oil." A long-time supporter of hydrogen technology, Dorgan's most recent work includes authoring a provision in the federal energy bill that provides $3.75 billion for hydrogen research. Earlier this year, he secured a $2.7 million grant for hydrogen research at the EERC. Dorgan also worked to secure the EERC's designation as a "National Center for Hydrogen Technology" by the U.S. Department of Energy, cementing its role in the rise of hydrogen power. The facility is a key element of Dorgan's Red River Valley Research Corridor, to which he has directed more than $225 million since 2002. "I am proud of the work the EERC has done in this exciting field," Dorgan said. "The work done in this facility has helped propel us into the future of transportation at an amazing rate, and I look forward to the work we will see here in the future."
 
 