SEN. DORGAN SPEAKS WITH STUDENTS AT RED RIVER HIGH SCHOOL IN GRAND FORKS
  Sen. Byron Dorgan presented a long over-due Bronze Star to Robert Voss of Lakota, North Dakota during a visit to Red River High School in Grand Forks, just four days before Veterans Day.  
   "There are heroes in our midst who have made great sacrifices to preserve the freedom and liberty we all enjoy," Dorgan said Monday. "Robert Voss is one of those heroes. We honor him and thank him for his extraordinary service to our country." 
   Voss was a member of the U.S. Army during the Second World War, serving in the Pacific Theater. He earned the Bronze Star exemplary courage and bravery under enemy fire during the battles of Ulithi, Anguar and Pelilieu islands. "We all owe a lot to Robert Voss and the other men and women who saved democracy during World War II." 
   During his visit here, Dorgan also talked about the future he is working to build for North Dakota's young people. Substantial progress is being made toward the creating a high-tech opportunities in the state that will allow North Dakota's youth to pursue their future close to home, Dorgan told Red River High School juniors and seniors. 
   "We've got some of the best and brightest students in the nation, but too many of them find when they graduate that they cannot find the kind of job opportunities, with a competitive wages they are looking for here at home. I want to create more opportunities here so that, when you finish your college degree, you'll have companies from North Dakota competing for you." 
   The Senator discussed his work to build a Red River Valley Research Corridor to attract high tech research and training work - and the businesses and industries that cluster around areas where such research and training takes place - with the students, reporting the project has already "advanced from theory to the point where we are already seeing some practical results." 
   He also fielded questions on a wide range of local and national issues during his stop at the school.
 
 