MINOT TO GET ADDITIONAL BOMBER SQUADRON, DELEGATION SAYS
  U.S. Senators Byron Dorgan and Kent Conrad and Congressman Earl Pomeroy announced today that the United States Air Force has informed them that the service will create a new B-52 squadron at Minot Air Force Base, adding as many as 1,090 additional personnel to the base. 
   "Our efforts to preserve the nation's B-52 bomber fleet have paid off in spades," the delegation said in a joint statement. "We could not be more pleased to hear the Air Force plans to add an additional squadron at Minot and maintain a fleet of 76 B-52 bombers. This is a plan we have been pushing all along." 
   The Air Force announced today that it plans to keep the nation's total B-52 force at 76 aircraft, rather than cut the fleet to 56 aircraft as originally proposed. The service will also establish a new B-52 squadron at Minot Air Force Base so it can meet the needs of combat commanders and the requirements of national strategy. The number of combat-ready aircraft at Minot will increase from 12 to 22. Almost 1,090 additional personnel will be authorized for Minot Air Force Base.
   Today's announcement comes shortly after both Air Force General John Corley, the head of Air Combat Command, and Air Force Chief of Staff General Michael Moseley stated that the military has a vital need for a B-52 Stratofortress fleet of at least 76 bombers. 
   The Congressional delegation has long stressed the strategic importance of maintaining the nation's fleet of B-52s. They have been fighting a Pentagon plan to slash America's bomber force to just 56 aircraft.
   The B-52 is an indispensable tool for our nation's military. Today's modernized B-52 can carry the widest range of weapons of any warplane the Air Force flies. It has the highest mission capable rate in the bomber force, and it costs the least to operate of any bomber. 
   "The Air Force has recognized the need for keeping 76 bombers at the ready -- as opposed to 56. And they know the best personnel to support this new squadron is at Minot Air Force Base," the delegation said. "This is good news for our nation's military capabilities, the mission at Minot Air Force Base, and the entire Minot community."
   Contact: Justin Kitsch and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 