SENATORS WAGE FRIENDLY BET ON SATURDAY'S FROZEN FOUR TITLE GAME
  A group of hockey-loving lawmakers are bringing a bit of Frozen Four excitement to Capitol Hill. Sens. Kent Conrad (D-ND) and Byron Dorgan (D-ND) have placed a friendly wager with their colleagues Sen. Wayne Allard (R-CO) and Sen. Ken Salazar (D-CO) on Saturday's NCAA men's hockey championship game between the University of North Dakota Fighting Sioux and the University of Denver Pioneers. Sens. Conrad and Dorgan are betting on a Sioux victory and have put up a box of Lewis and Clark candy bars, made by Lindy Sue's Candies in Mandan, as well as a box of the world-famous Widman's Chipperz, chocolate covered potato chips, made in Grand Forks. Sen. Allard will be wagering a box of Northern Colorado's finest T-bone steaks from Greeley, Colorado. Sen. Salazar is betting a box of all natural beef steaks from El Rancho Salazar, his family ranch in the San Luis Valley in Southern Colorado.  
   "We told our friends from Colorado not to 'bet the ranch' on this one so instead they're betting the beef," Conrad and Dorgan said in a joint statement. "This is going to be a great match-up. The Sioux are on a roll, playing some great hockey. We're confident they will bring another championship home to North Dakota and look forward to celebrating a Sioux victory by enjoying some Colorado steaks after the game." 
   As one might expect, the Colorado delegation feels differently. 
   Senator Salazar said, "The state of Colorado has a long tradition of hockey excellence and I am supremely confident that DU will make our whole state proud tomorrow night when they successfully defend their national title. Senator Allard and I look forward to collecting from Senators Conrad and Dorgan, but more importantly, to keeping the NCAA hockey national championship trophy where it belongs: the state of Colorado." 
   "Last year, the DU Pioneers showed they had what it takes to win it all in a hard-fought championship game. This year, Senator Salazar and I are looking to raise the stakes with the North Dakota delegation with a friendly wager," Senator Allard said. "With three DU alumni in the president's cabinet, can there be any doubt that the Pioneers will pull off another 'power play' in securing their seventh national title?" 
   The Sioux advanced to the championship game of the Frozen Four after defeating the University of Minnesota, last night, 4-2. The Sioux have 20 NCAA postseason appearances, including 15 Frozen Four berths and seven national championships, most recently in 2000. The University of Denver advanced after defeating in-state rival Colorado College, 6-2. The Pioneers have 17 NCAA postseason appearances, including 13 Frozen Four berths and were crowned national champions in 2004.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 