FERC CHAIRMAN, OAK RIDGE OFFICIAL TO HEADLINE 2005 RENEWABLE ENERGY IN UPPER MIDWEST CONFERENCE
  This year's Renewable Energy in the Upper Midwest Conference in Grand Forks February 23-24 will explore the vast potential for production of wind, hydrogen, ethanol and other renewable forms of energy in North Dakota and the region, organizers announced Tuesday.  
   The event is sponsored by U.S. Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND) and the Energy & Environmental Research Center (EERC) at the University of North Dakota. It builds on five successful wind energy conferences. 
   The two-day conference will be held at the Alerus Center in Grand Forks, North Dakota. It will feature an impressive lineup of national experts in the renewable energy field. 
   Dorgan said the event will feature keynote speeches from two of the nation's most influential leaders in the renewable energy sector: 
   * Pat Wood, Chairman of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), the independent regulator of the nation's wholesale electric power industry, natural gas, oil and refined products pipelines and hydroelectric facilities 
   * Dr. Marilyn Brown, a Commissioner on the National Commission on Energy Policy who also directs a $120 million-a-year program at the Department of Energy's Oak Ridge National Laboratory to develop advanced energy efficiency and renewable energy technologies 
   The conference begins with a general session on Wednesday, February 23. It is free and open to the public. Leaders from North Dakota, South Dakota and Minnesota will discuss their states' renewable energy projects and the barriers and possible solutions for advancing the region's energy interests. Dorgan said the half-day session is an "excellent opportunity for North Dakotans and others to hear about hydrogen, wind and biomass, and their role in our state's energy and economic future." 
   "We broadened the conference this year because perhaps unlike any other part of the country, the Upper Midwest has a huge range of renewable energy sources, under its skies and in its fields and prairies. That means limitless economic opportunities for North Dakota," Dorgan said. "The high price of oil, the predicted shortage of natural gas, the 2003 electrical blackout in the Northeast, and national security interests all make the same point: We need to move aggressively toward energy independence." 
   "The EERC is committed to exploring a full range of energy options to address the most challenging issue for this country: energy security," EERC Director Gerald Groenewold said. "With considerable help from Senator Dorgan and our private industry partners, we have developed strategic Centers of Excellence in biomass, wind, and alternative fuels, and have been designated as the National Center for Hydrogen Technology." 
   For more information or to register for the Renewable Energy in the Upper Midwest conference, call the EERC at 701-777-5246 or online at: www.undeerc.org/reconference.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Sanjay Talwani, 202/224-2551.
 
 