SEN. DORGAN REACTS TO PRESIDENT'S PROPOSED BUDGET
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) issued the following statement Tuesday in reaction to President Bush's $2.57 trillion Fiscal Year (FY) 2006 budget plan. The budget proposal predicts a record $427 billion deficit this year, without taking into account any additional spending for military efforts in Iraq and Afghanistan or the President's Social Security proposal.  
   The text of Dorgan's statement follows: 
  Text of Remarks
   By U.S. Senator Byron Dorgan 
   February 8, 2005 
   The budget submitted yesterday by President Bush is a real disappointment.
   Not only does the President propose the largest budget deficit in history, he does so by omitting a substantial amount of spending he knows will occur with respect to the war in Iraq and Afghanistan, his proposal to make the tax cuts permanent and much, much more.
   In short, it is not a level look at what we are facing as a country. I regret that because I believe the combined budget deficits and trade deficits of over $1 trillion a year put our country's long-term economic health in jeopardy. This is the time we need strong, steady leadership on fiscal and trade policies. And we need a budget document that calls it the way it is, rather than one that exaggerates good news and ignores the bad news altogether. 
   Aside from the failure to seriously address a fiscal policy that is out-of-balance, the choices the President is making in his budget are poor choices. 
   For example, his budget would:
   * Cut price supports that farmers were promised when the Congress passed the Farm Bill. 
   * Cut funds for Medicaid, health care for those without the resources to pay for their own. 
   * Zero out Amtrak funding, effectively ending Amtrak service in states like North Dakota. 
   * Eliminate funding for United Tribes Technical College and cut funding for tribal colleges across the United States. 
   Cut the veterans' health care budget in a way that does not keep up with medical inflation and payroll increases, which I think is outrageous. We owe so much to our veterans, and cutting their health care funding is breaking a promise we made to them when we asked them to serve their country. 
   But in other areas of his budget request, the President proposes to increase spending on programs that I think are not worthy. For example, he proposes putting the United States back into the business of designing and building new nuclear weapons, the so-called "earth-penetrating bunker-busters." That is not only a waste of money, but it sends the wrong signal to the rest of the world: that we intend to build additional nuclear weapons.
   The President also proposes to nearly double the amount of money we spend to broadcast television signals to Cuba-signals the Cuban people cannot see because they are easily jammed by the Cuban authorities. The millions of dollars we are spending on programs like TV Marti are representative of absurd wastes of the taxpayers' money.
   I agree we need to tighten our belt in a range of federal programs, but the President's priorities once again reward upper-income Americans and hurt those at the lower end of the income scale. I just don't think that is the right set of policies for our country.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Sanjay Talwani, 202/224-2551.
 
 