SEN. DORGAN, INDIAN AFFAIRS COMMITTEE HEAR NORTH DAKOTA DOCTORS' TESTIMONY ON DIABETES IN INDIAN COUNTRY
  Despite significant progress in the prevention and treatment of diabetes, the disease is a serious and growing epidemic among American Indians and Alaska Natives that deserves immediate attention from Congress, two doctors from North Dakota told a Senate Indian Affairs Committee hearing chaired by Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) Thursday.  
   Dr. James Brosseau, director of the Altru Diabetes Center in Grand Forks, North Dakota, and Dr. Biron Baker, a primary care physician at Med Center One in Bismarck, North Dakota, testified at Dorgan's hearing on the prevalence of diabetes in Indian Country. Dorgan invited the physicians to speak based on their extensive experience dealing with diabetes among Native American communities in North Dakota. 
   The doctors urged the Committee to continue and improve a critical program, set to expire next year, that provides important resources to educate the public on how to avoid diabetes and treat diabetes patients. The Special Diabetes Program for Indians has established nearly 400 new diabetes treatment and prevention programs in American Indian and Alaska Native communities. 
   "We don't want history to repeat itself," Dr. Brosseau testified. "Funding increases for alcohol treatment resulted in decreases in mortality rates, but when the funding was discontinued, mortality rates increased again. Please don't let the same thing happen with diabetes." 
   "The Indian Health Service is funded at roughly 40 percent of the level needed," Dr. Baker said. "In some areas, the Indian Health Service has done well. With administrators and medical staff, they have not. Increased funding for enhanced and expanded training programs would make a world of difference." 
   "The extensive experience Dr. Brosseau and Dr. Baker have in the treatment and prevention of diabetes provides valuable information that will help us push Congress to find new ways to prevent and treat this illness," Dorgan said. "Diabetes is a serious problem that affects our American Indian communities more than any other group, and I'll work to make sure we find a way to address it." 
   Diabetes is a widespread problem in Indian Country, affecting as much as 60 percent of the adult population in some tribal communities. Between 1990 and 2004, the prevalence of type 2 diabetes increased 133 percent among Native Americans under age 35, and amputation rates among American Indians are three to four times higher than for the general population.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 