SENS. DORGAN, CONRAD ANNOUNCE NORTHERN BORDER AIR WING IN GRAND FORKS TO BEGIN OPERATIONS IN JULY
  Sens. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) and Kent Conrad (D-ND) said Monday they've received a briefing from Department of Homeland Security officials saying the agency plans to "stand up" the Grand Forks branch of the Northern Border Air Wing in July 2007. The agency also will establish a northern border unmanned aircraft system (UAS) pilot program based in Grand Forks that will be established by the end of fiscal year 2007.  
   Dorgan and Conrad worked to locate an air wing branch in Grand Forks and then to secure funding to accelerate its establishment - including $17 million in the Fiscal Year 2007 Homeland Security Appropriations bill that was approved by Congress in September. Homeland Security officials told them they plan to send a survey team to North Dakota in mid-January, with the air wing opening six months later. 
   When fully operational, the air wing will include helicopters and fixed-wing planes fitted with sensor equipment and several dozen staff members. A "grand opening" will be held in September. Construction on a permanent 65,000-square-foot facility at Grand Forks International Airport is scheduled to begin in the summer of 2007. 
   "This new Northern Border Air Wing will be a boost for the security of our border with Canada, the city of Grand Forks and the emerging UAV mission at Grand Forks," Senator Dorgan said. "We have a long, unprotected northern border and we need to make sure it is secure. The funding that we secured was meant to speed up the implementation of the plan to base this air wing in North Dakota, and I'm pleased the way this project has progressed." 
   "It is vital to the security of our nation that we protect our borders. The establishment of the Grand Forks Air Wing is a giant step in enhancing our homeland security," Senator Conrad said. "This is a project I have been working on for several years, and I am glad it is finally coming to fruition." 
   The U.S. Customs and Border Protection agency's Grand Forks sector is responsible for 847 miles of border, the most of any sector in the country. It covers eight states: North Dakota, South Dakota, Minnesota, Wisconsin, Nebraska, Iowa, Kansas, and Missouri.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 