SEN. DORGAN BRIEFS AIRPORT, CITY OFFICIALS ON PLANNED AIR SERVICE IMPROVEMENTS
  U.S. Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND) met with Jamestown airport and city officials Tuesday to brief them on the agreement he secured from Northwest Airlines to improve air passenger service to Jamestown. He also shared a letter from the airline confirming the changes. 
   Dorgan worked for several months with local officials and the airline to secure the changes which will take place in May. Ticket sales for the new flights secured in the agreement could go on sale as early as January 12.
   "These improvements will mean better and more convenient service, with direct flights between Jamestown and Minneapolis/St. Paul," Dorgan said. "That's important for Jamestown area travelers, the local economy and it is ultimately also beneficial for Northwest Airlines."
   Specifically, Dorgan said Northwest Airlines will cancel its current Aberdeen-Jamestown and Brainerd-Devils Lake routes in May and replace these routes with flights leaving from Minneapolis/St. Paul to Jamestown and on to Devils Lake and flights leaving from Devils Lake to Jamestown and on to Minneapolis/St. Paul. The specific schedule for these flights has not yet been determined.
   In August, Dorgan convened a meeting to discuss Northwest Airlines' service to North Dakota and issues faced by the North Dakota airports. Jamestown and Devils Lake officials were able to meet face to face with Northwest Airlines at this meeting. In addition, Dorgan met in November with local Jamestown officials and discussed their concerns about the current Northwest routes and the need for better service. He then briefed Northwest officials on the request and asked them to meet with the cities to discuss the changes the cities wanted.
   The Department of Transportation must approve the proposed changes, Dorgan said, but he added that he believes that won't be a problem.
   Among those who met with Dorgan at the Jamestown airport were Mayor Clarice Liechty, Airport Manager Jennifer Eckman, and Jim Boyd, a member of the airport Board.
   Dorgan also visited with area farmers at the Winter Ag Expo and spoke to students at Jamestown High School during his stop here.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 