DELEGATION WELCOMES BISMARCK MUSIC STUDENTS TO D.C.
  Sens. Byron Dorgan and Kent Conrad and Rep. Earl Pomeroy today welcomed Bismarck's St. Mary's Central High School concert choir and the Century High School Band to Washington, D.C. for a special Capitol Hill concert arranged by the congressional delegation. 
   "The months of hard work and practice have clearly paid off for the Bismarck St. Mary's choir and Bismarck Century Band," the delegation said in a joint statement. "These outstanding young musicians are sharing their talent and serving as emissaries of the spirit of North Dakota. Their wonderful performance today will have a lasting impression and has made all of us - and all of North Dakota - proud."
   The St. Mary's choir sang a spiritual hymn and dedicated it to Bismarck natives, Spc. Curtis Mehrer and Sgt. Travis Van Zoest, two North Dakota National Guardsmen killed in Afghanistan this week.
   The St. Mary's choir is visiting Washington as part of a 10-day performance tour entitled "Faith in America." In addition to performing at the Capitol, the choir has performed at the U.S. Soldiers' and Airmen's Home, on the steps of the Lincoln Memorial, and during mass at the Basilica of the National Shrine of the Immaculate Conception. The choir is also scheduled to perform the national anthem at the Washington Nationals baseball game.
   "It is such an honor to perform for the North Dakota Congressional Delegation and to represent our state in our nation's capital," said Michael Anderson, 18, a member of the St. Mary's choir.
   The Century Patriot Band has entertained audiences from coast to coast and has earned a national reputation of delivering a first rate performance of the highest quality. The 70-member band has been traveling the East Coast since May 29 performing at Faneuil Hall Market Square in Boston, the Statue of Liberty in New York City, and Mount Vernon, the birthplace of George Washington.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 