DELEGATION ANNOUNCES AIR FORCE CHIEF TO VISIT NORTH DAKOTA BASES NEXT WEEK
  Sens. Byron Dorgan and Kent Conrad and Rep. Earl Pomeroy announced Thursday that General T. Michael Moseley, Air Force Chief of Staff, will travel to North Dakota next week to visit Grand Forks and Minot Air Force Bases.  
   Gen. Moseley will visit Grand Forks Air Force Base March 13 and Minot Air Force Base March 14 to inspect the facilities and meet with service members and community leaders. The delegation said Gen. Moseley has shown himself to be a good friend of North Dakota's bases, and that his visit is an indication of the Air Force's intent to ensure both installations continue to play a key role in maintaining the nation's security. 
   The delegation has met with Moseley often to discuss North Dakota's Air Force missions. They have urged him to maintain the nation's fleet of B-52s and ICBMs, many of which are based at Minot Air Force Base. They also worked closely with him to secure an Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) mission for the Grand Forks Air Force Base, and continue to urge him to consider the site as a home for the next generation of air refueling tankers. 
   "General Moseley has been a good friend of our military bases at Grand Forks and Minot, and I'm pleased that he has decided to visit them next week," Dorgan said. "I know that what he'll find is some of the Air Force's best personnel, top-notch facilities and infrastructure, and a community that genuinely appreciates and welcomes the Air Force. We have worked hard to assure the Air Force that North Dakota is a good home for its missions, and I think General Moseley will see that firsthand next week." 
   "General Moseley recognizes the vital role North Dakota's air bases play in defending our nation. Our bases in Minot and Grand Forks are among the best in the Air Force and will continue to play an integral part of our nation's defense well into the future," Conrad said. "Gen. Moseley will also be exploring ways in which the Air Force can tap into North Dakota's new energy technology and opportunities for additional Air Force investments in North Dakota. Gen. Moseley's visit only further illustrates his commitment -- and the nation's commitment --- to North Dakota." 
   "I am delighted that General Moseley will have the opportunity to visit our bases in Grand Forks and Minot," Pomeroy said. "Our bases are among the very best in the nation, and I am sure that General Moseley's visit will only strengthen the Air Force's commitment to continue the missions in Grand Forks and Minot that are so vital to the nation's security."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 