SEN. DORGAN SAYS CONGRESS MUST ACT ON HIGH ENERGY PRICES
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) said Tuesday a joint hearing scheduled by the Senate's Commerce and Energy Committees to receive testimony from executives of the nation's largest oil companies is "all well and good, but what we need is action."  
   "Consumers need relief from high energy prices, which have fueled the biggest windfall profits in the history of corporate America," Dorgan said. "The combined more than $30 billion in profits reported by the five largest integrated oil companies for the third quarter of this year alone represents a gain of historic proportions for the oil companies, and a great deal of pain for millions of Americans." 
   "The news that home heating fuel prices are about to spike only makes the need for action by Congress all the more urgent. Talk is cheap. The price of energy, as we all know, is not. Congress needs to act." 
   Dorgan is advancing legislation to create a Windfall Profits Rebate, which would be funded by a 50% excise tax on windfall oil profits - defined as revenue from prices over $40 a barrel for oil - by the major integrated oil companies. Money raised by the tax would be rebated directly to consumers by the U.S. Treasury. 
   Windfall profits that are invested in exploration or production of new domestic energy sources or to expand refinery capacity would be exempt from the legislation, which Dorgan is sponsoring along with Senators Chris Dodd (D-CT), Harry Reid (D-NV), Barbara Boxer (D-CA), Jack Reed (D-R.I.) and Joseph Lieberman (D-CT). 
   Dorgan dismissed claims by the oil companies that their high prices are just the product of the free market at work. "There is no free market when it comes to oil," he said. "OPEC dictates production levels and prices. Mega-mergers have rendered price competition between the remaining oil company giants a quaint relic from the past. The futures market for oil has become a grand bazaar of speculation." 
   "The oil market is teeming with manipulation and if the oil companies do not invest their billions of dollars of easy money in things that will make our country more energy independent and that will help lower energy costs, then some of those profits need to be rebated to consumers."
 
 