SENS. DORGAN, CONRAD PUSH FOR DISASTER AID FOR NORTH DAKOTA FARMERS IN EMERGENCY RELIEF BILL
  Sens. Byron Dorgan and Kent Conrad announced Wednesday that when the Senate considers additional emergency funding for the Florida hurricane victims, they will push to include relief for farmers in the Northern Great Plains who have suffered major financial losses due to drought, flooding and frost.  
   The President sent emergency legislation to Congress Tuesday, seeking $2 billion to replenish Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) funds for hurricane victims, and both Houses of Congress quickly approved the measure. The President has indicated he will submit a second request to Congress for additional funds shortly. If the President's second emergency bill does not include the aid for farmers that Dorgan and Conrad have asked for, they said they would push to amend the bill in the Senate to include the aid. 
   "Family farmers and ranchers in North Dakota have also been victims of weather disasters. That these disasters happened over a period of months does not make them any less devastating," Dorgan and Conrad said in a joint statement. "This bill should include aid for farmers and ranchers in the Northern Great Plains who have been the victims of drought, floods and frost. We're ready to help the people of Florida recover from the devastating storms of the last few weeks, but the nation should also help farmers who are suffering from weather-related disasters." 
   Dorgan serves on the Senate Appropriations Committee and Conrad serves on the Senate Agriculture Committee. They have introduced legislation in the Senate that would provide $1.6 billion in disaster assistance for farmers and ranchers. 
   Because of torrential rains in early spring, about 1.7 million acres of cropland in North Dakota could not be planted; many additional acres were planted but then washed away. Then, on August 18, 19 and 20, an unprecedented cold spell hit parts of the state, with temperatures falling below freezing. In southwest North Dakota, farmers and ranchers have faced a severe drought, with some areas getting only 2.2 inches of moisture in six months, devastating small grain and hay crops. 
   "Farmers are as helpless against floods and frost as they are against severe storms. A drought ruins livelihoods as completely as a hurricane. North Dakota farmers and ranchers deserve emergency relief," Dorgan and Conrad said.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt, 202/224-2551.
 
 