SEN. DORGAN SAYS PRESIDENT'S RESEARCH WRONG ON ECONOMY, NEED FOR CORPORATE TAX CUT
  U.S. Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND) said Thursday President Bush "stopped a page short of good research" in making claims about the performance of the economy during his time in office and with his proposal to cut the corporate income tax rate. 
   Dorgan challenged the President's claims on job creation and income levels.  
   * JOB CREATION: The President claimed he inherited an economy in recession and his policies have produced a robust economy. In fact, Dorgan said, during the Clinton Administration, 22.7 million jobs were created. During Bush's tenure, only 5.6 million jobs have been created, less than a fourth the total of his predecessor. Additionally, the U.S. has lost about 3 million good paying manufacturing jobs since President Bush took office and 5.4 million more Americans live in poverty. 
   * INCOME: The President claimed personal, after-tax income is up. Again, reality is a different picture, Dorgan said. Median household income, adjusted for inflation is $1,273 less than it was in 2001, and poverty rates remain high, at 12.6 percent. 
   Dorgan also strongly disagreed with the President's proposal, yesterday, for a cut in U.S. corporate income tax rates. 
   The President said further cuts are needed, claiming that the U.S corporate income tax rate of 35 percent puts U.S. corporations at a competitive disadvantage with foreign competitors. 
   "Once again, the President's research is faulty," Dorgan said. 
   "It's not the corporate tax rate that matters compared to other countries. It's the "effective" tax rate. There are so many tax breaks for big corporations that virtually none of them pay the statutory corporate tax rate. The effective tax rate for U.S. corporations - what they pay in taxes after all the loopholes and tax breaks have been subtracted out - is much lower than the statutory tax rate. By that measure, the only one that really matters, U.S. corporations already pay much smaller effective tax rates than corporations in many other countries." 
   Of the 29 western industrialized countries that belong to the Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), only Iceland, Germany and Poland have corporate tax burdens less than the United States, as a percent of Gross Domestic Product (GDP), Dorgan said. The U.S corporate tax burden ranks 26th out of 29. 
   Additionally, U.S. corporate income taxes, measured as a percentage of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) have been cut by more than half since 1965, down from 4.0% to just 1.9% today. 
   Finally, Dorgan said, a study by of 275 profitable Fortune 500 corporations by Citizens for Tax Justice found that very few U.S. corporations pay the 35 percent corporate tax rate cited by the President. Using tax breaks and loopholes, only the average effective corporate tax rate in 2001 was 21.4 percent. By 2003, that average effective rate had fallen to 17.2 percent, less than half the 35 percent rate the President claimed corporations are paying. 
   A recent Government Accountability Office (GAO) study found that 63 percent of U.S. controlled companies with $2.7 trillion in gross receipts paid zero taxes. 
   "It's hard to make a case that large U.S. corporations are paying too much in income taxes, though I know some will try," Dorgan said. "The real question is, why aren't so many of them even paying their fair share?" 
   Dorgan described Bush's proposed corporate tax cut as "irresponsible," given the level of debt he's rung up and the heavy borrowing he is doing to pay for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
   "President Bush turned the $236 billion budget surplus he inherited into deficits of over $1.7 trillion, all totaled, during his time in office. He has an emergency spending proposal pending in Congress rig ht now for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan for another $145 billion - all of it borrowed, none of it paid for," Dorgan said. 
   "Now he wants to cut taxes for the biggest and wealthiest corporations, and bases the argument for doing so on data that is incomplete at best, and some would describe as simply misleading."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 