SENS. DORGAN, CONRAD COMMENT ON DEVILS LAKE AGREEMENT
  Sen. Dorgan and Sen. Conrad released the following statement on the announcement of the agreement on the Devils Lake outlet:  
   Our goal has always been to help solve the Devils Lake flooding problem, but as we do that, we cannot negotiate away our rights to meet the water needs of eastern North Dakota. 
   Canada has always opposed our using Missouri River water to meet the water needs of eastern North Dakota. We can't let them prevail. While yesterday's announced agreement with Canada is not yet in final written form, we have been assured that the agreement in principle will not impede our ability to move Missouri River water to eastern North Dakota. 
   When this agreement is reduced to a final written document, if it in any way limits our ability to move Missouri River water to eastern North Dakota, we could not support it. Senators Conrad and Dorgan and Congressman Pomeroy repeatedly argued against language that could have given Canada a veto over moving water from the Missouri River to meet the water needs of eastern North Dakota. Earlier this week, the Governor provided the delegation with language of a possible agreement with Canada that included an automatic, mandatory referral to the International Joint Commission (IJC) for movement of water from the Missouri River to Devils Lake. 
   The congressional delegation strongly opposed setting such a precedent that could have jeopardized North Dakota's ability to develop its own water resources. Senator Conrad, Senator Dorgan and Congressman Pomeroy outlined their objections to the language negotiated by the Governor in a letter dated August, 4, 2005. They also expressed their opposition to the provisions in conference calls with the Governor. 
   The Governor then responded with modified language that still required an automatic, mandatory referral to the IJC for movement of water from the Missouri River to an inlet to Devils Lake. 
   Again, the congressional delegation responded in writing and in a conference call yesterday restating their objection to language that could give Canada a veto over movement of water from the Missouri River to eastern North Dakota. Senators Conrad and Dorgan and Congressman Pomeroy expressed strong support for moving water out of Devils Lake through an outlet but indicated that they believe it is extremely important that North Dakota's future water opportunities are not restricted or limited by the final language of the agreement.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 