NATIONAL FEDERATION OF INDEPENDENT BUSINESS ANNOUNCES SMALL BUSINESS SUPPORT FOR BIPARTISAN DRUG IMPORTATION LEGISLATION
  Today House and Senate sponsors of bipartisan drug importation legislation acclaimed the endorsement of the National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB) which announced its support for legislation to permit legal importation of FDA-approved medications. The legislation, the Pharmaceutical Market Access and Drug Safety Act (S. 242 / H.R. 380) is sponsored in the Senate by Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND) and Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME), and in the House by Representatives Rahm Emanuel (D-IL) and Jo Ann Emerson (R-MO). In a letter released today, the NFIB stated its support for the legislation, 
   "Importation offers a means of reducing one of the most rapidly rising healthcare costs facing consumers today - spending on prescription drugs," the letter added, "The Pharmaceutical Market Access and Drug Safety Act secures a framework for the safe and legal importation of prescription drugs. NFIB is pleased that your legislation includes specific requirements that ensure that every imported drug meets U.S. safety standards."  
   Senate and House sponsors noted that the NFIB endorsement reflects the view of over three out of four small business members that a competitive market for prescription drugs is essential to achieving more affordable drug pricing. 
   "Support for our legislation continues to grow. People recognize that it will help make prescription drugs more affordable, and strengthen the safety of medicines we import from other countries," Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND) said. "The NFIB endorsement is significant, and is a substantial boost to our effort to pass this legislation." 
   "Today's NFIB endorsement reflects a clear consensus among America's small businesses that we must no longer pay the world's highest prices for prescription drugs," Senator Olympia Snowe (R-ME) said. Drug costs have led an escalation in health care costs which has outstripped inflation by 2-3 fold - eroding the purchasing power of small businesses struggling to provide health benefits. NFIB members recognize overwhelmingly - just as four out of five Americans do - that competition will help reduce drug costs and make health care more affordable for all Americans. 
   "NFIB's endorsement demonstrates that the small business community understands that passing legislation to legalize the importation of prescription drugs will open our captive prescription drug market to competition and help bring lifesaving prescription drugs to Americans at prices they can afford," U.S. Rep. Rahm Emanuel (IL-5th). 
   The NFIB joins over 50 organizations in calling for passage of this legislation including the AARP, AFL-CIO, Consumers Union, Families USA and others. NFIB represents nearly 600,000 small businesses whose members have ranked health care reform the most critical issue facing small business. 
   Both the House and Senate have recently acted in opposition to the current ban which prevents consumers, pharmacists and wholesalers from importing prescription drugs. Last week, the House voted by a margin of 283-146 to retain a provision in the FY 2008 Agriculture Appropriations legislation which would bar FDA enforcement of the ban on importing FDA-approved prescription drugs. Similarly, the Senate adopted an amendment to Homeland Security appropriations legislation to bar the Customs Service from enforcing such a ban against individuals importing FDA-approved medications from Canada. A previous Senate vote to bar enforcement of the ban was supported by 68 Senators. 
   The Pharmaceutical Market Access and Drug Safety Act of 2007 was introduced by Dorgan and Snowe on January 10 and currently has 36 Senate sponsors. The House version of the legislation sponsored by Representative Rahm Emanuel (D-IL-5th) and Jo Ann Emerson (R-MO-8th)) currently has 101 cosponsors.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 