ADMINISTRATION MAY BE BREAKING FEDERAL LAW IN HOBBLING CUBA AGRICULTURAL TRADE
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) said Thursday that a legal analysis he requested from the nonpartisan Congressional Research Services (CRS) suggests tactics used by the Bush Administration to block sales of agricultural products to Cuba may be violating federal law. In a letter to Treasury Secretary John Snow and Secretary of State Colin Powell, Sen. Dorgan called on the Office of Foreign Asset Control (OFAC) to cease its attempts to shut down U.S. agricultural trade with Cuba. He noted federal law, originally sponsored by Dorgan in 2000, allows U.S. agricultural sales to Cuba.  
   "This CRS report released today shows that the Administration's moves to thwart agricultural sales to Cuba aren't just bad policy. They appear to be illegal," said Dorgan. "Secretary Snow needs to immediately cease the campaign to block these sales. The Administration's stance is doing nothing to bring down the regime of Fidel Castro, but is hurting family farmers in North Dakota and across the nation and is flying in the face of federal law." 
   The law sponsored by Dorgan in 2000 requires Cuban buyers to pay for the agricultural goods before they receive them. Now, OFAC has re-interpreted the law so that the Cubans have to pay for the products before they even leave the United States. This means that the Cubans have to pay for the products possibly weeks before they arrive, terms that make American products uncompetitive to Cuban buyers. According to the CRS report, OFAC's new interpretation of the law "appears likely to result in a reduction in trade with Cuba, which appears contrary to the express intent of Congress." Dorgan noted that the law requires that any new restrictions on trade to Cuba be approved by Congress. 
   "I urge you to direct officials at the Office of Foreign Assets Control to stop their efforts to hinder trade with Cuba so that U.S. farmers and ranchers can continue selling their agricultural products to that nation," Dorgan wrote in the letter. 
   To hear Senator Dorgan speak about this and other issues: Go to http://dorgan.senate.gov/newsroom/newsaudio.cfm 
   To view a copy of Dorgan's letter to Powell and Snow: See http://dorgan.senate.gov/newsroom/extras/120904powellsnow.PDF.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Sanjay Talwani, 202/224-2551. 
 
 