SENS. DORGAN, SNOWE OTHERS INTRODUCE PRESCRIPTION DRUG IMPORTATION BILL
  At a press conference today, Sens. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) and Olympia Snowe (R-Maine) announced they are introducing today comprehensive, bipartisan prescription drug importation legislation, the Pharmaceutical Market Access and Drug Safety Act. They were joined by Sens. Chuck Grassley (R-IA), Edward Kennedy (D-MA), John McCain (R-AZ), Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), co-sponsors of the legislation, and Reps. JoAnn Emerson (R-MO) and Sherrod Brown (D-OH), who are introducing companion legislation in the House of Representatives.  
   In all, 27 members of the Senate, from both parties, are co-sponsoring the bill. "Miracle drugs provide no miracles for those who can't afford them," Dorgan said. "By providing access to safe, lower-priced prescription medicines from Canada and other countries, we will save lives and enhance the quality of life for millions of Americans." 
   "The human cost of skyrocketing prescription drug prices is seen every day in our nation's hospitals," said Snowe. "We see it in Maine and across the country - Americans whose lives are harmed or shortened by the inability to afford life-saving medications. With the cost of prescription drugs rising at 2-3 times the rate of inflation, the need to secure affordable drugs is no longer deniable, and the status quo is no longer defendable. The Pharmaceutical Market Access and Drug Safety Act comprehensively addresses the safety and other concerns that have been raised about drug importation, clearing the way for us to act now." This legislation mandates comprehensive safety measures to maintain the integrity of the pharmaceutical supply. It would only allow the importation of FDA-approved drugs from countries with comparable regulation to that of the FDA. Also, imported drugs must be tracked, examined, and properly labeled by licensed pharmacists. Anticounterfeiting measures will be employed to secure the drug supply, and improved labeling requirements will make tracking and even drug recalls far more effective. "I refuse to believe that we in America are not up to the task of ensuring the safety of imported drugs," said Snowe. "The legislation we have introduced represents an achievable, bipartisan approach that answers the safety questions and has the support of an overwhelming majority of Americans. There is no doubt our constituents need and deserve our prompt action - I call on my colleagues in the Senate to join us in this effort, and to work with the FDA to make drug importation a reality." 
   Dorgan noted the bill could help cut costs of the new Medicare prescription drug benefit, which estimates reported today could exceed $1 trillion. "By opening the U.S. market to price competition from abroad, we will exert downward pressure on drug prices, which are now monopoly priced by the big drug companies," Dorgan said. "This legislation will also have a beneficial impact on taxpayers." 
   Under a commitment from Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-TN) and Mike Enzi (R-WY), Chairman of the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee (HELP), the legislation will be the subject of a hearing by the Senate HELP Committee before the end of April. 
   The Pharmaceutical Market Access and Drug Safety Act has 28 cosponsors, including Senators Dorgan, Snowe, Charles Grassley (R-IA), Edward Kennedy (D-MA), John McCain (R-AZ), Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Lincoln Chafee (R-RI), James Jeffords (I-VT), Trent Lott (R-MS), Mark Dayton (D-MN), Hillary Clinton (D-NY), Jeff Bingaman (D-NM), Barbara Boxer (D-CA), Kent Conrad (D-ND), Richard Durbin (D-IL), Russell Feingold (D-WI), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Daniel Inouye (D-HI), Tim Johnson (D-SD), Herb Kohl (D-WI), Patrick Leahy (D-VT), Carl Levin (D-MI), Bill Nelson (D-FL), Barack Obama (D-IL), Mark Pryor (D-AR), Ken Salazar (D-CO), Paul Sarbanes (D-MD), and Charles Schumer (D-NY).
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Sanjay Talwani, 202/224-2551.
 
 