SENS. DORGAN, SNOWE INTRODUCE LEGISLATION TO PRESERVE INTERNET FREEDOM
  Sens. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) and Olympia Snowe (R-ME) introduced legislation Tuesday that would ensure that Internet use - by consumers, content providers, and businesses - remains free from interference by broadband service providers. 
   The legislation, known as the Internet Freedom Preservation Act, would ensure that broadband service providers do not discriminate against Internet content, applications or services by offering preferential treatment. Some broadband providers have discussed plans to start acting like a gatekeeper on the previously open World Wide Web, capable of deciding which content can get through to consumers, and which content providers could get special deals, faster speeds, and better access to the consumer.  
   Such discrimination would "fundamentally change the way the Internet has operated and threatens to derail the democratic nature of the Internet," U.S. Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND) said. "The Internet became a robust engine of economic development by enabling anyone with a good idea to connect to consumers and compete on a level playing field. The marketplace picked winners and losers, not some central gatekeeper. That freedom - the very core of what makes the Internet what it is today - must be preserved." 
   "Today's reintroduction of the Internet Freedom Preservation Act marks another step toward ensuring the fate of the Internet lies in the hands of its users and not the hands of a few gatekeepers," Senator Olympia Snowe (R-ME) said. "The tide has turned in the debate between those who seek to maintain equality and those who would benefit from the creation of a toll road on the Internet super highway. The reintroduction of this legislation and the FCC's imposition of net neutrality conditions as part of the AT&T-BellSouth merger, are significant victories in the fight to ensure nondiscrimination on the Internet, and I look forward to continuing that fight along side Senator Dorgan in the new Congress." 
   Several executives of companies that provide broadband service have publicly discussed their hope to eventually charge special fees to Internet content providers. 
   The two law-makers said their bill has the support of Internet businesses large and small, consumer groups, labor and education groups, religious organizations, and many others. Both Senators are members of the Senate Commerce Committee, which will have legislative jurisdiction over the bill. 
   Under the legislation, broadband service providers must operate the network in a nondiscriminatory manner, but would remain free to manage the network to protect the security of the network or offer different levels of broadband connection to users. They must also offer consumers the option of purchasing a "stand alone" broadband connection that is not bundled with cable, phone or Voice Over Internet Phone (VoIP) service. 
   Dorgan and Snowe offered similar legislation, which generated nearly one million letters and e-mails of support, in the previous Congress. The senators believed they had the votes to pass that legislation, but Senate leaders would not allow it to come to a vote. 
   In addition to Dorgan and Snowe, co-sponsors include Senators John Kerry (D-MA), Barbara Boxer (D-CA), Tom Harkin (D-IA), Patrick Leahy (D-VT), Hillary Clinton (D-NY), and Barack Obama (D-IL).
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 