SEN. DORGAN HONORS AREA FARMERS, BRIEFS EXTENSION ROUND UP CROWD ON FUNDING VICTORIES IN CONGRESS
  U.S. Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND) honored ten area farmers in Devils Lake Wednesday for their participation in a test project which seeks to determine if the region's family farmers can economically benefit from efforts to manage rising Devils Lake water levels. 
   Dorgan presented certificates of appreciation to the farmers who took part in an important test project which is attempting to determine if water can be drawn from Devils Lake and used to economically benefit farmers in the region through irrigation. The test program includes the irrigation of about 1100 acres, and could be expanded to 3000 acres next year. 
   Receiving the certificates were: Floyd Slaughbaugh (Wolford); Carlan Slaughbaugh (Wolford); JR & LL Gibbens Farms (Cando); Duane Anderson (Leeds); Bryl Brothers (Devils Lake); Brad Horne (Penn); Richard Adahl (Churchs Ferry); Glen Tofsrud (Minnewaukan); Mike Johnston (Cando); Mike Parker (Cando).
   A member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Dorgan secured nearly $1.3 million in federal funding for the $1.5 million project. If successful, the test project could help area farmers use water from Devils Lake for irrigation to grow more profitable crops, while also helping the effort to manage continually rising lake levels.
   The ceremony took place as part of North Dakota State University's (NDSU) Regional Extension Round-Up in Devils Lake. The Senator also briefed the crowd on coming air passenger service improvements he helped secure from Northwest Airlines, and funding victories he recently secured in Congress. During his stop in the city he also spoke to students at Devils Lake High School.
   Dorgan also discussed a number of other topics here, including coming air passenger service improvements he worked with local officials and Northwest Airlines to secure. 
   Specifically, Dorgan said Northwest Airlines will cancel its current Aberdeen-Jamestown and Brainerd-Devils Lake routes in May and replace these routes with flights leaving from Minneapolis/St. Paul to Jamestown and on to Devils Lake and flights leaving from Devils Lake to Jamestown and on to Minneapolis/St. Paul. The specific schedule for these flights has not yet been determined. He shared a letter from Northwest Airlines confirming the changes.
   Dorgan worked for several months with local officials and the airline to secure the changes, which will take place in May. Ticket sales could begin as early as January 12. 
   "These improvements will mean better and more convenient service for Devils Lake, with better seat availability for residents of this area," Dorgan said. "That's important for Devils Lake area travelers, the local economy and it is ultimately also beneficial for Northwest Airlines."
   A member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Dorgan also briefed the Round-Up crowd on congressional funding victories for the area in Congress this past year.
   Dorgan reported that he secured $5.9 million for the Devils Lake Water Supply project, which includes 33 miles of new pipeline and a new water treatment facility. He also reported securing $33.4 million in funding for a new school house for combat engineers at Camp Grafton, near Devils Lake.
   Senator Dorgan also spoke to high school students at Devils Lake High School.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 