SEN. DORGAN SAYS CONGRESS APPROVES INVESTMENTS THAT WILL STRENGTHEN ECONOMY OF DICKINSON AREA
  U.S. Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND) held a town hall meeting here Thursday to discuss the economy of the Dickinson region and hear the concerns of local residents. He also provided an update on his work in Congress, including his successful effort to secure funding to support high-tech research and make critical infrastructure improvements in the area. 
   Dorgan, a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, presented a symbolic check representing the $3.9 million investment he secured in the Southwest Area Pipeline, which will bring a safe, reliable supply of water to Oliver, Mercer, Dunn and McKenzie counties. Dorgan, who chairs the Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee, secured a record-breaking $68 million investment in the Garrison Diversion, which includes the Southwest Area Pipeline.
   "An investment in a reliable water supply is an investment in the future of our state," Dorgan said. "We cannot have economic development without water. The completion of the Southwest Area Pipeline is crucial if we hope to continue growing our energy industry and western North Dakota's economy."
   Dorgan also secured $1.35 million in federal funding for a research project that partners Dickinson State University with North Dakota State University. Using the latest technology, the researchers are searching for better ways to track livestock through the food chain - helping to secure the U.S. food supply against disease outbreaks and acts of terrorism.
   "Dickinson is a thriving community and I'm excited about the projects we have going on here," Dorgan said. "The research at Dickinson State University is making a real contribution to the safety of our food supply. That not only improves the education of DSU's students, but it contributes to the well-being of our ranchers and our nation's security."
   Dorgan also gave attendees the latest update on the status of the farm bill. The House and Senate have passed different versions of farm legislation, and will work on a compromise when Congress reconvenes later this month. The President has threatened to veto the farm bill. He said the Senate produced a solid farm bill that will strengthen the safety net for family farmers and, for the first time in more than a decade, establish a permanent disaster relief program.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 