DELEGATION, GOV. HOEVEN PUSH FOR FARGO FLYING MISSION AT MEETINGS WITH PENTAGON OFFICIALS
  Sens. Byron Dorgan and Kent Conrad, Rep. Earl Pomeroy, Gov. John Hoeven, and General Mike Haugen teamed up Thursday in conversations with two top National Guard officials to make the case that Fargo's Air National Guard Base should continue to house a flying mission.  
   The North Dakota officials spoke to Lieutenant General Steven Blum, chief of the National Guard Bureau, and Lieutenant General Daniel James, chief of the Air National Guard, about future flying missions for Fargo's 119th Fighter Wing, also known as the Happy Hooligans. Together, they lobbied the National Guard officials to urge the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission to strike language from the Pentagon's recommendation that the Fargo base should have "no flying mission backfill." 
   The language was included in the Pentagon's May recommendations to the BRAC Commission, along with the removal of the Fargo base's F-16 fighter jets and a 36 percent reduction in its National Guard facilities. 
   "It just doesn't make sense to take planes away from America's best pilots," North Dakota's congressional delegation said in a joint statement. "The Happy Hooligans are highly-decorated, award-winning pilots. We are making the case, which is a very strong one, that Fargo's air base should remain an active, engaged part of Air Force and Air National Guard military operations." 
   The delegation added they are encouraged by news they received in the last week that the Grand Forks Air Force Base is going to be the recipient of Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs)-both the Predator and the Global Hawk-and that Fargo's pilots would play a key role in operating them. 
   "The UAV mission that will be based at Grand Forks likely will rely heavily on the trained pilots at Fargo. That's a very good reason to keep those pilots active and engaged, and it shows that the Pentagon values their skills," the delegation said. "We remain optimistic after today's meetings. And we will keep fighting to override the Pentagon's recommendation of 'no flying mission backfill,' so we can look forward to many years of planes flying out of Fargo."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 