REQUEST FOR SURVEY TEAM VISIT TO NORTH DAKOTA ON MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG BENEFIT GOES UNANSWERED
  In a letter Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) received today from Health and Human Services Secretary Mike Leavitt, the Secretary contends that enrollment in the new Medicare prescription drug benefit "has exceeded expectations," despite numbers that show seniors in North Dakota and other rural states in the region have the lowest drug coverage rates in the nation. 
   The letter comes on the same day Secretary Leavitt is in Bismarck for a conference on the avian flu. It follows a letter Dorgan sent mid-February asking the Secretary to send a survey team to North Dakota, South Dakota, Montana and Wyoming to investigate why so few seniors in those states have signed up for the new Medicare prescription drug benefit. Leavitt's response letter did not address the Senator's request. With the sign-up period set to end May 15, 63 percent of seniors in North Dakota that are eligible still do not have prescription drug coverage, Dorgan noted.
   "Unfortunately, the Department of Health and Human Services seems to have blinders on to the fact that there are serious problems with enrollment," Dorgan said.
   Dorgan said his office also received an email today from the Denver regional office of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), which is the agency under Secretary Leavitt's purview that is responsible for administering the drug benefit program. The email announced a CMS bus that is touring the country will make stops in North Dakota in April with the aim of helping organizations improve the enrollment process.
   The Senator said the educational bus is a positive move, but it doesn't come close to diagnosing the enrollment challenges specific to the Great Plains in a way that a survey team could.
   Dorgan said he will continue to push the Secretary's office for a survey team visit, and he will keep fighting to pass legislation in Congress that simplifies the drug benefit statutorily and extends the sign-up deadline.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 