SEN. DORGAN: ADMINISTRATION FUNDING IS 'TOO LITTLE, TOO LATE' IN EFFORT TO HELP SENIORS SIGN UP FOR MEDICARE DRUG BENEFIT
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) said Tuesday the $18,889 the Administration has approved for North Dakota this week to sign seniors up for the Medicare prescription drug plan - just days before the May 15 deadline - is "too little, too late." 
   Dorgan said that while he hopes seniors sign up for the Medicare prescription drug benefit by the May 15 deadline (those signing up after the deadline would be hit by higher premiums), the implementation of the drug plan has been "a mess" and the Administration should extend the deadline to allow seniors more time to wade through the 41 drug plans offered in North Dakota and choose the one best for them.
   "I hope that this funding helps some seniors choose an appropriate Medicare prescription drug program, but if the Administration was serious about helping the tens of thousands of North Dakotans who have no drug coverage they would have sent this funding when we requested it 7 months ago, not 7 days before the deadline," Dorgan said. "The implementation of this program has been a massive failure, and this effort to throw money at the problem is too little, too late. Once again the Administration has chosen a policy to limit, rather than increase, participation in the Medicare prescription drug benefit."
   Of the 103,000 people eligible for the Medicare prescription drug benefit in North Dakota, more than 37,000 have not yet enrolled.
   Dorgan, along with Senator Kent Conrad (D-ND) and Congressman Earl Pomeroy (D-ND), asked the Administration last year to allot additional funding to help seniors enroll in a Medicare drug plan. Earlier this year, Dorgan asked the Secretary of Health and Human Services to dispatch a special survey team to North Dakota and other northern Great Plains states to determine why the region, which has some of the highest percentages of senior citizens with no prescription drug coverage, is at the bottom in terms of senior citizens signing up for the new Medicare prescription drug program.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 