SENATE ADOPTS NEW DORGAN-SNOWE SAFEGUARDS FOR U.S. DRUGS
  The U.S. Senate unanimously approved an amendment Wednesday offered by Sens. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) and Olympia Snowe (R-ME) to the Food and Drug Administration re-authorization bill to combat counterfeit prescription drugs. The amendment was adopted in the wake of Senate action on Monday blocking their effort to allow consumers to purchase lower priced prescription drugs from Canada and several other countries. 
   Opponents - most notably the big pharmaceutical manufacturers - attacked the Dorgan-Snowe importation amendment by alleging it opened the door to the widespread entry of counterfeit drugs from other countries. Pushed by the drug industry, the Senate adopted an amendment that blocked implementation of the Dorgan-Snowe drug importation proposal, but also eliminated the stricter anti-counterfeiting measures it would have established.
   Wednesday's action clears the way for those stronger anti-counterfeiting measures and new requirements for tracking drug supplies to take effect. Importation of lower priced prescription medicines - the other part of the Dorgan-Snowe proposal - remains blocked, however.
   "Today's action will significantly improve the safety of prescription drugs, by putting in place important anti-counterfeiting measures and a system to track drugs as they move through the market," Dorgan said. "The drug companies objected to our bipartisan drug importation amendment because of what they said were concerns about counterfeit drugs. The drug companies will now be required to develop the enhanced safety measures."
   The anti-counterfeiting amendment offered by Senators Dorgan and Snowe will require all prescription drugs to have a unique serial number within 18 months. This is the first step to being able to track the flow of drugs from where they are made to where they are sold. The amendment also requires manufacturers to add counterfeit resistant technologies to all prescription products within 30 months.
   "I am pleased this amendment was adopted," Dorgan said. "If counterfeit drugs are a problem, we need to act vigorously to prevent and interdict them. That is what this amendment does. If we can put anti-counterfeiting technology on the twenty dollar bill, why can't we do the same on pill bottles? Whether we allow importation of drugs from other countries or not, these new safeguards will help protect consumers."
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt, Brenden Timpe, 202/224-2551.
 
 