SEN. DORGAN SAYS NORTH DAKOTA HAS MORE AT STAKE THAN MOST STATES IN DRIVE FOR FAIR ENERGY PRICING - DEMANDS CONGRESSIONAL ACTION
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) said Wednesday the appearance by the Chief Executive Officers (CEOs) of the major oil companies before two Senate committees offered little that was convincing to explain why energy prices for consumers are so high at the same time profits for the major oil companies are setting new - even previously undreamed of - records.  
   Dorgan is a member of the Senate's Energy and Commerce Committees which held a joint hearing to question the oil company executives. He is the author of legislation that would rebate back to consumers much of the windfall profits oil companies are now reaping if they are not re-invested in expanding energy supplies or refinery capacity. 
   "It is clear Congress must act to restore basic fairness to energy pricing," Dorgan said. "Action is needed urgently, as the winter home heating season begins and current estimates are that home heating fuel prices will likely be as much as 60% higher than last year's levels" 
   Family farmers also are threatened, he said. "They face the very real prospect that energy prices by the next planting season, if Congress does not act, will be so much higher than last year and that may cause thousands of farmers off the farm. Congress needs to act." 
   "North Dakota has much more at stake than most states," Dorgan said. "Because we are a rural state, we drive longer distances. Because we're a cold winter state, our home heating bills are high even when prices are normal. Because we are a farm state, energy costs for our biggest industry - family farm agriculture -have a huge impact on our state's economy. Talk is cheap. The price for energy is not. Congress needs to act." 
   Dorgan dismissed much of the testimony offered by the oil company executives Wednesday. "They still peddle the old myth that all these high prices are just the natural result of the free market. There is no free market for oil when you have OPEC dictating production and prices, no competition between the big oil companies which have merged down to just a giant handful, and a futures market that performs as a grand bazaar for speculation. The market is teeming with manipulation and the government has an obligation to intervene to protect consumers," Dorgan said.
 
 