NORTHWEST AGREES TO ADJUST FLIGHT SERVICE REDUCTIONS IN BISMARCK, GRAND FORKS, SEN. DORGAN ANNOUNCES
  Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) said today Northwest Airlines officials have informed him today they will amend the previously announced October 1 airline schedules for both Bismarck and Grand Forks to provide some additional seats.  
   The news came in response to concerns raised by Dorgan and the communities about the effects of cuts in service and follows several meetings the Senator convened between the city leaders and Northwest Airlines officials. The most recent meeting was held in Minneapolis September 2. 
   Dorgan said Northwest executives told him this morning they would replace one of the morning round-trip Bismarck flights that was scheduled to be a regional jet with a larger DC-9 aircraft-adding 50 seats to the previously announced schedule. Service to Grand Forks would increase 18 seats a day above the previously announced schedule, as Northwest will also upgrade a morning round-trip flight, previously announced as a turbo-prop Saab aircraft, to a regional jet. 
   The Senator said he appreciates Northwest's willingness to make some modifications in the schedule they had previously announced for October, which would have shrunk service to several North Dakota cities. The company has now made adjustments for Fargo, Bismarck, and Grand Forks; Minot was not scheduled to experience any service reductions. 
   Despite the positive news, Dorgan said he remains concerned about future service to North Dakota cities. He said he is concerned about news reports citing airlines, including Northwest Airlines, that are considering filing for bankruptcy before October 17, the date the new bankruptcy law takes effect. An airline that files for bankruptcy protection will shrink the size of the airline and reduce service, Dorgan said. He said he hopes Northwest will avoid filing for bankruptcy, and that there will be no new threats to flight service to North Dakota cities in the months ahead. 
   "We rely so heavily on Northwest Airlines' service to our four major cities," Dorgan said. "If Northwest files a bankruptcy petition, I think the resulting reductions in service to North Dakota cities and other similar-sized communities could have a devastating impact on our economy." 
   "I have been in touch with Department of Transportation officials, as well as Northwest Airlines officials, about the need to have continued satisfactory air service to our region even in the face of the challenges that most of the airline industry is now facing," Dorgan said.
   Contact: Barry E. Piatt and Rebecca Pollard, 202/224-2551.
 
 